THE BOOK OF MORMON

An Account Written by
THE HAND OF MORMON
UPON PLATES
TAKEN FROM THE PLATES OF NEPHI

Wherefore, it is an abridgment of the record of the people of
Nephi, and also of the Lamanites--Written to the Lamanites, who
are a remnant of the house of Israel; and also to Jew and
Gentile--Written by way of commandment, and also by the spirit of
prophecy and of revelation--Written and sealed up, and hid up
unto the Lord, that they might not be destroyed--To come forth by
the gift and power of God unto the interpretation thereof--Sealed
by the hand of Moroni, and hid up unto the Lord, to come forth in
due time by way of the Gentile--The interpretation thereof by the
gift of God.

An abridgment taken from the Book of Ether also, which is a
record of the people of Jared, who were scattered at the time the
Lord confounded the language of the people, when they were
building a tower to get to heaven--Which is to show unto the
remnant of the House of Israel what great things the Lord hath
done for their fathers; and that they may know the covenants of
the Lord, that they are not cast off forever--And also to the
convincing of the Jew and Gentile that JESUS is the CHRIST, the
ETERNAL GOD, manifesting himself unto all nations--And now, if
there are faults they are the mistakes of men; wherefore, condemn
not the things of God, that ye may be found spotless at the
judgment-seat of Christ.

TRANSLATED BY JOSEPH SMITH, JUN.


THE TESTIMONY OF THREE WITNESSES

Be it known unto all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, unto
whom this work shall come: That we, through the grace of God the
Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ, have seen the plates which
contain this record, which is a record of the people of Nephi,
and also of the Lamanites, their brethren, and also of the people
of Jared, who came from the tower of which hath been spoken.  And
we also know that they have been translated by the gift and power
of God, for his voice hath declared it unto us; wherefore we know
of a surety that the work is true.  And we also testify that we
have seen the engravings which are upon the plates; and they have
been shown unto us by the power of God, and not of man.  And we
declare with words of soberness, that an angel of God came down
from heaven, and he brought and laid before our eyes, that we
beheld and saw the plates, and the engravings thereon; and we
know that it is by the grace of God the Father, and our Lord
Jesus Christ, that we beheld and bear record that these things
are true.  And it is marvelous in our eyes.  Nevertheless, the
voice of the Lord commanded us that we should bear record of it;
wherefore, to be obedient unto the commandments of God, we bear
testimony of these things.  And we know that if we are faithful
in Christ, we shall rid our garments of the blood of all men, and
be found spotless before the judgment-seat of Christ, and shall
dwell with him eternally in the heavens.  And the honor be to the
Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost, which is one God. 
Amen.

OLIVER COWDERY
DAVID WHITMER
MARTIN HARRIS


THE TESTIMONY OF EIGHT WITNESSES

Be it known unto all nations, kindreds, tongues, and people, unto
whom this work shall come: That Joseph Smith, Jun., the
translator of this work, has shown unto us the plates of which
hath been spoken, which have the appearance of gold; and as many
of the leaves as the said Smith has translated we did handle with
our hands; and we also saw the engravings thereon, all of which
has the appearance of ancient work, and of curious workmanship. 
And this we bear record with words of soberness, that the said
Smith has shown unto us, for we have seen and hefted, and know of
a surety that the said Smith has got the plates of which we have
spoken.  And we give our names unto the world, to witness unto
the world that which we have seen.  And we lie not, God bearing
witness of it.

CHRISTIAN WHITMER
JACOB WHITMER
PETER WHITMER, JUN.
JOHN WHITMER
HIRAM PAGE
JOSEPH SMITH, SEN.
HYRUM SMITH
SAMUEL H. SMITH

.

THE BOOK OF OMNI

Omni 1:1
 1 Behold, it came to pass that I, Omni, being commanded by my
father, Jarom, that I should write somewhat upon these plates, to
preserve our genealogy--

Omni 1:2
 2 Wherefore, in my days, I would that ye should know that I
fought much with the sword to preserve my people, the Nephites,
from falling into the hands of their enemies, the Lamanites.  But
behold, I of myself am a wicked man, and I have not kept the
statutes and the commandments of the Lord as I ought to have
done.

Omni 1:3
 3 And it came to pass that two hundred and seventy and six years
had passed away, and we had many seasons of peace; and we had
many seasons of serious war and bloodshed.  Yea, and in fine, two
hundred and eighty and two years had passed away, and I had kept
these plates according to the commandments of my fathers; and I
conferred them upon my son Amaron.  And I make an end.

Omni 1:4
 4 And now I, Amaron, write the things whatsoever I write, which
are few, in the book of my father.

Omni 1:5
 5 Behold, it came to pass that three hundred and twenty years
had passed away, and the more wicked part of the Nephites were
destroyed.

Omni 1:6
 6 For the Lord would not suffer, after he had led them out of
the land of Jerusalem and kept and preserved them from falling
into the hands of their enemies, yea, he would not suffer that
the words should not be verified, which he spake unto our
fathers, saying that: Inasmuch as ye will not keep my
commandments ye shall not prosper in the land.

Omni 1:7
 7 Wherefore, the Lord did visit them in great judgment;
nevertheless, he did spare the righteous that they should not
perish, but did deliver them out of the hands of their enemies.

Omni 1:8
 8 And it came to pass that I did deliver the plates unto my
brother Chemish.

Omni 1:9
 9 Now I, Chemish, write what few things I write, in the same
book with my brother; for behold, I saw the last which he wrote,
that he wrote it with his own hand; and he wrote it in the day
that he delivered them unto me.  And after this manner we keep
the records, for it is according to the commandments of our
fathers.  And I make an end.

Omni 1:10
 10 Behold, I, Abinadom, am the son of Chemish.  Behold, it came
to pass that I saw much war and contention between my people, the
Nephites, and the Lamanites; and I, with my own sword, have taken
the lives of many of the Lamanites in the defence of my brethren.

Omni 1:11
 11 And behold, the record of this people is engraven upon plates
which is had by the kings, according to the generations; and I
know of no revelation save that which has been written, neither
prophecy; wherefore, that which is sufficient is written.  And I
make an end.

Omni 1:12
 12 Behold, I am Amaleki, the son of Abinadom.  Behold, I will
speak unto you somewhat concerning Mosiah, who was made king over
the land of Zarahemla; for behold, he being warned of the Lord
that he should flee out of the land of Nephi, and as many as
would hearken unto the voice of the Lord should also depart out
of the land with him, into the wilderness--

Omni 1:13
 13 And it came to pass that he did according as the Lord had
commanded him.  And they departed out of the land into the
wilderness, as many as would hearken unto the voice of the Lord;
and they were led by many preachings and prophesyings.  And they
were admonished continually by the word of God; and they were led
by the power of his arm, through the wilderness, until they came
down into the land which is called the land of Zarahemla.

Omni 1:14
 14 And they discovered a people, who were called the people of
Zarahemla.  Now, there was great rejoicing among the people of
Zarahemla; and also Zarahemla did rejoice exceedingly, because
the Lord had sent the people of Mosiah with the plates of brass
which contained the record of the Jews.

Omni 1:15
 15 Behold, it came to pass that Mosiah discovered that the
people of Zarahemla came out from Jerusalem at the time that
Zedekiah, king of Judah, was carried away captive into Babylon.

Omni 1:16
 16 And they journeyed in the wilderness, and were brought by the
hand of the Lord across the great waters, into the land where
Mosiah discovered them; and they had dwelt there from that time
forth.

Omni 1:17
 17 And at the time that Mosiah discovered them, they had become
exceedingly numerous.  Nevertheless, they had had many wars and
serious contentions, and had fallen by the sword from time to
time; and their language had become corrupted; and they had
brought no records with them; and they denied the being of their
Creator; and Mosiah, nor the people of Mosiah, could understand
them.

Omni 1:18
 18 But it came to pass that Mosiah caused that they should be
taught in his language.  And it came to pass that after they were
taught in the language of Mosiah, Zarahemla gave a genealogy of
his fathers, according to his memory; and they are written, but
not in these plates.

Omni 1:19
 19 And it came to pass that the people of Zarahemla, and of
Mosiah, did unite together; and Mosiah was appointed to be their
king.

Omni 1:20
 20 And it came to pass in the days of Mosiah, there was a large
stone brought unto him with engravings on it; and he did
interpret the engravings by the gift and power of God.

Omni 1:21
 21 And they gave an account of one Coriantumr, and the slain of
his people.  And Coriantumr was discovered by the people of
Zarahemla; and he dwelt with them for the space of nine moons.

Omni 1:22
 22 It also spake a few words concerning his fathers.  And his
first parents came out from the tower, at the time the Lord
confounded the language of the people; and the severity of the
Lord fell upon them according to his judgments, which are just;
and their bones lay scattered in the land northward.

Omni 1:23
 23 Behold, I, Amaleki, was born in the days of Mosiah; and I
have lived to see his death; and Benjamin, his son, reigneth in
his stead.

Omni 1:24
 24 And behold, I have seen, in the days of king Benjamin, a
serious war and much bloodshed between the Nephites and the
Lamanites.  But behold, the Nephites did obtain much advantage
over them; yea, insomuch that king Benjamin did drive them out of
the land of Zarahemla.

Omni 1:25
 25 And it came to pass that I began to be old; and, having no
seed, and knowing king Benjamin to be a just man before the Lord,
wherefore, I shall deliver up these plates unto him, exhorting
all men to come unto God, the Holy One of Israel, and believe in
prophesying, and in revelations, and in the ministering of
angels, and in the gift of speaking with tongues, and in the gift
of interpreting languages, and in all things which are good; for
there is nothing which is good save it comes from the Lord; and
that which is evil cometh from the devil.

Omni 1:26
 26 And now, my beloved brethren, I would that ye should come
unto Christ, who is the Holy One of Israel, and partake of his
salvation, and the power of his redemption.  Yea, come unto him,
and offer your whole souls as an offering unto him, and continue
in fasting and praying, and endure to the end; and as the Lord
liveth ye will be saved.

Omni 1:27
 27 And now I would speak somewhat concerning a certain number
who went up into the wilderness to return to the land of Nephi;
for there was a large number who were desirous to possess the
land of their inheritance.

Omni 1:28
 28 Wherefore, they went up into the wilderness.  And their
leader being a strong and mighty man, and a stiffnecked man,
wherefore he caused a contention among them; and they were all
slain, save fifty, in the wilderness, and they returned again to
the land of Zarahemla.

Omni 1:29
 29 And it came to pass that they also took others to a
considerable number, and took their journey again into the
wilderness.

Omni 1:30
 30 And I, Amaleki, had a brother, who also went with them; and I
have not since known concerning them.  And I am about to lie down
in my grave; and these plates are full.  And I make an end of my
speaking.



.


Enos 1
THE BOOK OF ENOS

Enos 1:1
 1 Behold, it came to pass that I, Enos, knowing my father that
he was a just man--for he taught me in his language, and also in
the nurture and admonition of the Lord--and blessed be the name
of my God for it--

Enos 1:2
 2 And I will tell you of the wrestle which I had before God,
before I received a remission of my sins.

Enos 1:3
 3 Behold, I went to hunt beasts in the forests; and the words
which I had often heard my father speak concerning eternal life,
and the joy of the saints, sunk deep into my heart.

Enos 1:4
 4 And my soul hungered; and I kneeled down before my Maker, and
I cried unto him in mighty prayer and supplication for mine own
soul; and all the day long did I cry unto him; yea, and when the
night came I did still raise my voice high that it reached the
heavens.

Enos 1:5
 5 And there came a voice unto me, saying: Enos, thy sins are
forgiven thee, and thou shalt be blessed.

Enos 1:6
 6 And I, Enos, knew that God could not lie; wherefore, my guilt
was swept away.

Enos 1:7
 7 And I said: Lord, how is it done?

Enos 1:8
 8 And he said unto me: Because of thy faith in Christ, whom thou
hast never before heard nor seen.  And many years pass away
before he shall manifest himself in the flesh; wherefore, go to,
thy faith hath made thee whole.

Enos 1:9
 9 Now, it came to pass that when I had heard these words I began
to feel a desire for the welfare of my brethren, the Nephites;
wherefore, I did pour out my whole soul unto God for them.

Enos 1:10
 10 And while I was thus struggling in the spirit, behold, the
voice of the Lord came into my mind again, saying: I will visit
thy brethren according to their diligence in keeping my
commandments.  I have given unto them this land, and it is a holy
land; and I curse it not save it be for the cause of iniquity;
wherefore, I will visit thy brethren according as I have said;
and their transgressions will I bring down with sorrow upon their
own heads.

Enos 1:11
 11 And after I, Enos, had heard these words, my faith began to
be unshaken in the Lord; and I prayed unto him with many long
strugglings for my brethren, the Lamanites.

Enos 1:12
 12 And it came to pass that after I had prayed and labored with
all diligence, the Lord said unto me: I will grant unto thee
according to thy desires, because of thy faith.

Enos 1:13
 13 And now behold, this was the desire which I desired of
him--that if it should so be, that my people, the Nephites,
should fall into transgression, and by any means be destroyed,
and the Lamanites should not be destroyed, that the Lord God
would preserve a record of my people, the Nephites; even if it so
be by the power of his holy arm, that it might be brought forth
at some future day unto the Lamanites, that, perhaps, they might
be brought unto salvation--

Enos 1:14
 14 For at the present our strugglings were vain in restoring
them to the true faith.  And they swore in their wrath that, if
it were possible, they would destroy our records and us, and also
all the traditions of our fathers.

Enos 1:15
 15 Wherefore, I knowing that the Lord God was able to preserve
our records, I cried unto him continually, for he had said unto
me: Whatsoever thing ye shall ask in faith, believing that ye
shall receive in the name of Christ, ye shall receive it.

Enos 1:16
 16 And I had faith, and I did cry unto God that he would
preserve the records; and he covenanted with me that he would
bring them forth unto the Lamanites in his own due time.

Enos 1:17
 17 And I, Enos, knew it would be according to the covenant which
he had made; wherefore my soul did rest.

Enos 1:18
 18 And the Lord said unto me: Thy fathers have also required of
me this thing; and it shall be done unto them according to their
faith; for their faith was like unto thine.

Enos 1:19
 19 And now it came to pass that I, Enos, went about among the
people of Nephi, prophesying of things to come, and testifying of
the things which I had heard and seen.

Enos 1:20
 20 And I bear record that the people of Nephi did seek
diligently to restore the Lamanites unto the true faith in God. 
But our labors were vain; their hatred was fixed, and they were
led by their evil nature that they became wild, and ferocious,
and a bloodthirsty people, full of idolatry and filthiness;
feeding upon beasts of prey; dwelling in tents, and wandering
about in the wilderness with a short skin girdle about their
loins and their heads shaven; and their skill was in the bow, and
in the cimeter, and the ax.  And many of them did eat nothing
save it was raw meat; and they were continually seeking to
destroy us.

Enos 1:21
 21 And it came to pass that the people of Nephi did till the
land, and raise all manner of grain, and of fruit, and flocks of
herds, and flocks of all manner of cattle of every kind, and
goats, and wild goats, and also many horses.

Enos 1:22
 22 And there were exceedingly many prophets among us.  And the
people were a stiffnecked people, hard to understand.

Enos 1:23
 23 And there was nothing save it was exceeding harshness,
preaching and prophesying of wars, and contentions, and
destructions, and continually reminding them of death, and the
duration of eternity, and the judgments and the power of God, and
all these things--stirring them up continually to keep them in
the fear of the Lord.  I say there was nothing short of these
things, and exceedingly great plainness of speech, would keep
them from going down speedily to destruction.  And after this
manner do I write concerning them.

Enos 1:24
 24 And I saw wars between the Nephites and Lamanites in the
course of my days.

Enos 1:25
 25 And it came to pass that I began to be old, and an hundred
and seventy and nine years had passed away from the time that our
father Lehi left Jerusalem.

Enos 1:26
 26 And I saw that I must soon go down to my grave, having been
wrought upon by the power of God that I must preach and prophesy
unto this people, and declare the word according to the truth
which is in Christ.  And I have declared it in all my days, and
have rejoiced in it above that of the world.

Enos 1:27
 27 And I soon go to the place of my rest, which is with my
Redeemer; for I know that in him I shall rest.  And I rejoice in
the day when my mortal shall put on immortality, and shall stand
before him; then shall I see his face with pleasure, and he will
say unto me: Come unto me, ye blessed, there is a place prepared
for you in the mansions of my Father.  Amen.

Jarom 1
THE BOOK OF JAROM

Jarom 1:1
 1 Now behold, I, Jarom, write a few words according to the
commandment of my father, Enos, that our genealogy may be kept.

Jarom 1:2
 2 And as these plates are small, and as these things are written
for the intent of the benefit of our brethren the Lamanites,
wherefore, it must needs be that I write a little; but I shall
not write the things of my prophesying, nor of my revelations. 
For what could I write more than my fathers have written?  For
have not they revealed the plan of salvation?  I say unto you,
Yea; and this sufficeth me.

Jarom 1:3
 3 Behold, it is expedient that much should be done among this
people, because of the hardness of their hearts, and the deafness
of their ears, and the blindness of their minds, and the
stiffness of their necks; nevertheless, God is exceedingly
merciful unto them, and has not as yet swept them off from the
face of the land.

Jarom 1:4
 4 And there are many among us who have many revelations, for
they are not all stiffnecked.  And as many as are not stiffnecked
and have faith, have communion with the Holy Spirit, which maketh
manifest unto the children of men, according to their faith.

Jarom 1:5
 5 And now, behold, two hundred years had passed away, and the
people of Nephi had waxed strong in the land.  They observed to
keep the law of Moses and the sabbath day holy unto the Lord. 
And they profaned not; neither did they blaspheme.  And the laws
of the land were exceedingly strict.

Jarom 1:6
 6 And they were scattered upon much of the face of the land, and
the Lamanites also.  And they were exceedingly more numerous than
were they of the Nephites; and they loved murder and would drink
the blood of beasts.

Jarom 1:7
 7 And it came to pass that they came many times against us, the
Nephites, to battle.  But our kings and our leaders were mighty
men in the faith of the Lord; and they taught the people the ways
of the Lord; wherefore, we withstood the Lamanites and swept them
away out of our lands, and began to fortify our cities, or
whatsoever place of our inheritance.

Jarom 1:8
 8 And we multiplied exceedingly, and spread upon the face of the
land, and became exceedingly rich in gold, and in silver, and in
precious things, and in fine workmanship of wood, in buildings,
and in machinery, and also in iron and copper, and brass and
steel, making all manner of tools of every kind to till the
ground, and weapons of war--yea, the sharp pointed arrow, and the
quiver, and the dart, and the javelin, and all preparations for
war.

Jarom 1:9
 9 And thus being prepared to meet the Lamanites, they did not
prosper against us.  But the word of the Lord was verified, which
he spake unto our fathers, saying that: Inasmuch as ye will keep
my commandments ye shall prosper in the land.

Jarom 1:10
 10 And it came to pass that the prophets of the Lord did
threaten the people of Nephi, according to the word of God, that
if they did not keep the commandments, but should fall into
transgression, they should be destroyed from off the face of the
land.

Jarom 1:11
 11 Wherefore, the prophets, and the priests, and the teachers,
did labor diligently, exhorting with all long-suffering the
people to diligence; teaching the law of Moses, and the intent
for which it was given; persuading them to look forward unto the
Messiah, and believe in him to come as though he already was. 
And after this manner did they teach them.

Jarom 1:12
 12 And it came to pass that by so doing they kept them from
being destroyed upon the face of the land; for they did prick
their hearts with the word, continually stirring them up unto
repentance.

Jarom 1:13
 13 And it came to pass that two hundred and thirty and eight
years had passed away--after the manner of wars, and contentions,
and dissensions, for the space of much of the time.

Jarom 1:14
 14 And I, Jarom, do not write more, for the plates are small. 
But behold, my brethren, ye can go to the other plates of Nephi;
for behold, upon them the records of our wars are engraven,
according to the writings of the kings, or those which they
caused to be written.

Jarom 1:15
 15 And I deliver these plates into the hands of my son Omni,
that they may be kept according to the commandments of my
fathers.





Alma 60:10
 10 And now, my beloved brethren--for ye ought to be beloved;
yea, and ye ought to have stirred yourselves more diligently for
the welfare and the freedom of this people; but behold, ye have
neglected them insomuch that the blood of thousands shall come
upon your heads for vengeance; yea, for known unto God were all
their cries, and all their sufferings--




3 Nephi 1
Chapter 1

3 Nephi 1:1
 1 Now it came to pass that the ninety and first year had passed
away and it was six hundred years from the time that Lehi left
Jerusalem; and it was in the year that Lachoneus was the chief
judge and the governor over the land.

3 Nephi 1:2
 2 And Nephi, the son of Helaman, had departed out of the land of
Zarahemla, giving charge unto his son Nephi, who was his eldest
son, concerning the plates of brass, and all the records which
had been kept, and all those things which had been kept sacred
from the departure of Lehi out of Jerusalem.

3 Nephi 1:3
 3 Then he departed out of the land, and whither he went, no man
knoweth; and his son Nephi did keep the records in his stead,
yea, the record of this people.

3 Nephi 1:4
 4 And it came to pass that in the commencement of the ninety and
second year, behold, the prophecies of the prophets began to be
fulfilled more fully; for there began to be greater signs and
greater miracles wrought among the people.

3 Nephi 1:5
 5 But there were some who began to say that the time was past
for the words to be fulfilled, which were spoken by Samuel, the
Lamanite.

3 Nephi 1:6
 6 And they began to rejoice over their brethren, saying: Behold
the time is past, and the words of Samuel are not fulfilled;
therefore, your joy and your faith concerning this thing hath
been vain.

3 Nephi 1:7
 7 And it came to pass that they did make a great uproar
throughout the land; and the people who believed began to be very
sorrowful, lest by any means those things which had been spoken
might not come to pass.

3 Nephi 1:8
 8 But behold, they did watch steadfastly for that day and that
night and that day which should be as one day as if there were no
night, that they might know that their faith had not been vain.

3 Nephi 1:9
 9 Now it came to pass that there was a day set apart by the
unbelievers, that all those who believed in those traditions
should be put to death except the sign should come to pass, which
had been given by Samuel the prophet.

3 Nephi 1:10
 10 Now it came to pass that when Nephi, the son of Nephi, saw
this wickedness of his people, his heart was exceedingly
sorrowful.

3 Nephi 1:11
 11 And it came to pass that he went out and bowed himself down
upon the earth, and cried mightily to his God in behalf of his
people, yea, those who were about to be destroyed because of
their faith in the tradition of their fathers.

3 Nephi 1:12
 12 And it came to pass that he cried mightily unto the Lord, all
that day; and behold, the voice of the Lord came unto him,
saying:

3 Nephi 1:13
 13 Lift up your head and be of good cheer; for behold, the time
is at hand, and on this night shall the sign be given, and on the
morrow come I into the world, to show unto the world that I will
fulfill all that which I have caused to be spoken by the mouth of
my holy prophets.

3 Nephi 1:14
 14 Behold, I come unto my own, to fulfill all things which I
have made known unto the children of men from the foundation of
the world, and to do the will, both of the Father and of the
Son--of the Father because of me, and of the Son because of my
flesh.  And behold, the time is at hand, and this night shall the
sign be given.

3 Nephi 1:15
 15 And it came to pass that the words which came unto Nephi were
fulfilled, according as they had been spoken; for behold, at the
going down of the sun there was no darkness; and the people began
to be astonished because there was no darkness when the night
came.

3 Nephi 1:16
 16 And there were many, who had not believed the words of the
prophets, who fell to the earth and became as if they were dead,
for they knew that the great plan of destruction which they had
laid for those who believed in the words of the prophets had been
frustrated; for the sign which had been given was already at
hand.

3 Nephi 1:17
 17 And they began to know that the Son of God must shortly
appear; yea, in fine, all the people upon the face of the whole
earth from the west to the east, both in the land north and in
the land south, were so exceedingly astonished that they fell to
the earth.

3 Nephi 1:18
 18 For they knew that the prophets had testified of these things
for many years, and that the sign which had been given was
already at hand; and they began to fear because of their iniquity
and their unbelief.

3 Nephi 1:19
 19 And it came to pass that there was no darkness in all that
night, but it was as light as though it was mid-day.  And it came
to pass that the sun did rise in the morning again, according to
its proper order; and they knew that it was the day that the Lord
should be born, because of the sign which had been given.

3 Nephi 1:20
 20 And it had come to pass, yea, all things, every whit,
according to the words of the prophets.

3 Nephi 1:21
 21 And it came to pass also that a new star did appear,
according to the word.

3 Nephi 1:22
 22 And it came to pass that from this time forth there began to
be lyings sent forth among the people, by Satan, to harden their
hearts, to the intent that they might not believe in those signs
and wonders which they had seen; but notwithstanding these lyings
and deceivings the more part of the people did believe, and were
converted unto the Lord.

3 Nephi 1:23
 23 And it came to pass that Nephi went forth among the people,
and also many others, baptizing unto repentance, in the which
there was a great remission of sins.  And thus the people began
again to have peace in the land.

3 Nephi 1:24
 24 And there were no contentions, save it were a few that began
to preach, endeavoring to prove by the scriptures that it was no
more expedient to observe the law of Moses.  Now in this thing
they did err, having not understood the scriptures.

3 Nephi 1:25
 25 But it came to pass that they soon became converted, and were
convinced of the error which they were in, for it was made known
unto them that the law was not yet fulfilled, and that it must be
fulfilled in every whit; yea, the word came unto them that it
must be fulfilled; yea, that one jot or tittle should not pass
away till it should all be fulfilled; therefore in this same year
were they brought to a knowledge of their error and did confess
their faults.

3 Nephi 1:26
 26 And thus the ninety and second year did pass away, bringing
glad tidings unto the people because of the signs which did come
to pass, according to the words of the prophecy of all the holy
prophets.

3 Nephi 1:27
 27 And it came to pass that the ninety and third year did also
pass away in peace, save it were for the Gadianton robbers, who
dwelt upon the mountains, who did infest the land; for so strong
were their holds and their secret places that the people could
not overpower them; therefore they did commit many murders, and
did do much slaughter among the people.

3 Nephi 1:28
 28 And it came to pass that in the ninety and fourth year they
began to increase in great degree, because there were many
dissenters of the Nephites who did flee unto them, which did
cause much sorrow unto those Nephites who did remain in the land.

3 Nephi 1:29
 29 And there was also a cause of much sorrow among the
Lamanites; for behold, they had many children who did grow up and
began to wax strong in years, that they became for themselves,
and were led away by some who were Zoramites, by their lyings and
their flattering words, to join those Gadianton robbers.

3 Nephi 1:30
 30 And thus were the Lamanites afflicted also, and began to
decrease as to their faith and righteousness, because of the
wickedness of the rising generation.

3 Nephi 2
Chapter 2

3 Nephi 2:1
 1 And it came to pass that thus passed away the ninety and fifth
year also, and the people began to forget those signs and wonders
which they had heard, and began to be less and less astonished at
a sign or a wonder from heaven, insomuch that they began to be
hard in their hearts, and blind in their minds, and began to
disbelieve all which they had heard and seen--

3 Nephi 2:2
 2 Imagining up some vain thing in their hearts, that it was
wrought by men and by the power of the devil, to lead away and
deceive the hearts of the people; and thus did Satan get
possession of the hearts of the people again, insomuch that he
did blind their eyes and lead them away to believe that the
doctrine of Christ was a foolish and a vain thing.

3 Nephi 2:3
 3 And it came to pass that the people began to wax strong in
wickedness and abominations; and they did not believe that there
should be any more signs or wonders given; and Satan did go
about, leading away the hearts of the people, tempting them and
causing them that they should do great wickedness in the land.

3 Nephi 2:4
 4 And thus did pass away the ninety and sixth year; and also the
ninety and seventh year; and also the ninety and eighth year; and
also the ninety and ninth year;

3 Nephi 2:5
 5 And also an hundred years had passed away since the days of
Mosiah, who was king over the people of the Nephites.

3 Nephi 2:6
 6 And six hundred and nine years had passed away since Lehi left
Jerusalem.

3 Nephi 2:7
 7 And nine years had passed away from the time when the sign was
given, which was spoken of by the prophets, that Christ should
come into the world.

3 Nephi 2:8
 8 Now the Nephites began to reckon their time from this period
when the sign was given, or from the coming of Christ; therefore,
nine years had passed away.

3 Nephi 2:9
 9 And Nephi, who was the father of Nephi, who had the charge of
the records, did not return to the land of Zarahemla, and could
nowhere be found in all the land.

3 Nephi 2:10
 10 And it came to pass that the people did still remain in
wickedness, notwithstanding the much preaching and prophesying
which was sent among them; and thus passed away the tenth year
also; and the eleventh year also passed away in iniquity.

3 Nephi 2:11
 11 And it came to pass in the thirteenth year there began to be
wars and contentions throughout all the land; for the Gadianton
robbers had become so numerous, and did slay so many of the
people, and did lay waste so many cities, and did spread so much
death and carnage throughout the land, that it became expedient
that all the people, both the Nephites and the Lamanites, should
take up arms against them.

3 Nephi 2:12
 12 Therefore, all the Lamanites who had become converted unto
the Lord did unite with their brethren, the Nephites, and were
compelled, for the safety of their lives and their women and
their children, to take up arms against those Gadianton robbers,
yea, and also to maintain their rights, and the privileges of
their church and of their worship, and their freedom and their
liberty.

3 Nephi 2:13
 13 And it came to pass that before this thirteenth year had
passed away the Nephites were threatened with utter destruction
because of this war, which had become exceedingly sore.

3 Nephi 2:14
 14 And it came to pass that those Lamanites who had united with
the Nephites were numbered among the Nephites;

3 Nephi 2:15
 15 And their curse was taken from them, and their skin became
white like unto the Nephites;

3 Nephi 2:16
 16 And their young men and their daughters became exceedingly
fair, and they were numbered among the Nephites, and were called
Nephites.  And thus ended the thirteenth year.

3 Nephi 2:17
 17 And it came to pass in the commencement of the fourteenth
year, the war between the robbers and the people of Nephi did
continue and did become exceedingly sore; nevertheless, the
people of Nephi did gain some advantage of the robbers, insomuch
that they did drive them back out of their lands into the
mountains and into their secret places.

3 Nephi 2:18
 18 And thus ended the fourteenth year.  And in the fifteenth
year they did come forth against the people of Nephi; and because
of the wickedness of the people of Nephi, and their many
contentions and dissensions, the Gadianton robbers did gain many
advantages over them.

3 Nephi 2:19
 19 And thus ended the fifteenth year, and thus were the people
in a state of many afflictions; and the sword of destruction did
hang over them, insomuch that they were about to be smitten down
by it, and this because of their iniquity.

3 Nephi 3
Chapter 3

3 Nephi 3:1
 1 And now it came to pass that in the sixteenth year from the
coming of Christ, Lachoneus, the governor of the land, received
an epistle from the leader and the governor of this band of
robbers; and these were the words which were written, saying:

3 Nephi 3:2
 2 Lachoneus, most noble and chief governor of the land, behold,
I write this epistle unto you, and do give unto you exceedingly
great praise because of your firmness, and also the firmness of
your people, in maintaining that which ye suppose to be your
right and liberty; yea, ye do stand well, as if ye were supported
by the hand of a god, in the defence of your liberty, and your
property, and your country, or that which ye do call so.

3 Nephi 3:3
 3 And it seemeth a pity unto me, most noble Lachoneus, that ye
should be so foolish and vain as to suppose that ye can stand
against so many brave men who are at my command, who do now at
this time stand in their arms, and do await with great anxiety
for the word--Go down upon the Nephites and destroy them.

3 Nephi 3:4
 4 And I, knowing of their unconquerable spirit, having proved
them in the field of battle, and knowing of their everlasting
hatred towards you because of the many wrongs which ye have done
unto them, therefore if they should come down against you they
would visit you with utter destruction.

3 Nephi 3:5
 5 Therefore I have written this epistle, sealing it with mine
own hand, feeling for your welfare, because of your firmness in
that which ye believe to be right, and your noble spirit in the
field of battle.

3 Nephi 3:6
 6 Therefore I write unto you, desiring that ye would yield up
unto this my people, your cities, your lands, and your
possessions, rather than that they should visit you with the
sword and that destruction should come upon you.

3 Nephi 3:7
 7 Or in other words, yield yourselves up unto us, and unite with
us and become acquainted with our secret works, and become our
brethren that ye may be like unto us--not our slaves, but our
brethren and partners of all our substance.

3 Nephi 3:8
 8 And behold, I swear unto you, if ye will do this, with an
oath, ye shall not be destroyed; but if ye will not do this, I
swear unto you with an oath, that on the morrow month I will
command that my armies shall come down against you, and they
shall not stay their hand and shall spare not, but shall slay
you, and shall let fall the sword upon you even until ye shall
become extinct.

3 Nephi 3:9
 9 And behold, I am Giddianhi; and I am the governor of this the
secret society of Gadianton; which society and the works thereof
I know to be good; and they are of ancient date and they have
been handed down unto us.

3 Nephi 3:10
 10 And I write this epistle unto you, Lachoneus, and I hope that
ye will deliver up your lands and your possessions, without the
shedding of blood, that this my people may recover their rights
and government, who have dissented away from you because of your
wickedness in retaining from them their rights of government, and
except ye do this, I will avenge their wrongs.  I am Giddianhi.

3 Nephi 3:11
 11 And now it came to pass when Lachoneus received this epistle
he was exceedingly astonished, because of the boldness of
Giddianhi demanding the possession of the land of the Nephites,
and also of threatening the people and avenging the wrongs of
those that had received no wrong, save it were they had wronged
themselves by dissenting away unto those wicked and abominable
robbers.

3 Nephi 3:12
 12 Now behold, this Lachoneus, the governor, was a just man, and
could not be frightened by the demands and the threatenings of a
robber; therefore he did not hearken to the epistle of Giddianhi,
the governor of the robbers, but he did cause that his people
should cry unto the Lord for strength against the time that the
robbers should come down against them.

3 Nephi 3:13
 13 Yea, he sent a proclamation among all the people, that they
should gather together their women, and their children, their
flocks and their herds, and all their substance, save it were
their land, unto one place.

3 Nephi 3:14
 14 And he caused that fortifications should be built round about
them, and the strength thereof should be exceedingly great.  And
he caused that armies, both of the Nephites and of the Lamanites,
or of all them who were numbered among the Nephites, should be
placed as guards round about to watch them, and to guard them
from the robbers day and night.

3 Nephi 3:15
 15 Yea, he said unto them: As the Lord liveth, except ye repent
of all your iniquities, and cry unto the Lord, ye will in no wise
be delivered out of the hands of those Gadianton robbers.

3 Nephi 3:16
 16 And so great and marvelous were the words and prophecies of
Lachoneus that they did cause fear to come upon all the people;
and they did exert themselves in their might to do according to
the words of Lachoneus.

3 Nephi 3:17
 17 And it came to pass that Lachoneus did appoint chief captains
over all the armies of the Nephites, to command them at the time
that the robbers should come down out of the wilderness against
them.

3 Nephi 3:18
 18 Now the chiefest among all the chief captains and the great
commander of the armies of the Nephites was appointed, and his
name was Gidgiddoni.

3 Nephi 3:19
 19 Now it was the custom among all the Nephites to appoint for
their chief captains, (save it were in their times of wickedness)
some one that had the spirit of revelation and also prophecy;
therefore, this Gidgiddoni was a great prophet among them, as
also was the chief judge.

3 Nephi 3:20
 20 Now the people said unto Gidgiddoni: Pray unto the Lord, and
let us go up upon the mountains and into the wilderness, that we
may fall upon the robbers and destroy them in their own lands.

3 Nephi 3:21
 21 But Gidgiddoni saith unto them: The Lord forbid; for if we
should go up against them the Lord would deliver us into their
hands; therefore we will prepare ourselves in the center of our
lands, and we will gather all our armies together, and we will
not go against them, but we will wait till they shall come
against us; therefore as the Lord liveth, if we do this he will
deliver them into our hands.

3 Nephi 3:22
 22 And it came to pass in the seventeenth year, in the latter
end of the year, the proclamation of Lachoneus had gone forth
throughout all the face of the land, and they had taken their
horses, and their chariots, and their cattle, and all their
flocks, and their herds, and their grain, and all their
substance, and did march forth by thousands and by tens of
thousands, until they had all gone forth to the place which had
been appointed that they should gather themselves together, to
defend themselves against their enemies.

3 Nephi 3:23
 23 And the land which was appointed was the land of Zarahemla,
and the land which was between the land Zarahemla  and the land
Bountiful, yea, to the line which was between the land Bountiful
and the land Desolation.

3 Nephi 3:24
 24 And there were a great many thousand people who were called
Nephites, who did gather themselves together in this land.  Now
Lachoneus did cause that they should gather themselves together
in the land southward, because of the great curse which was upon
the land northward.

3 Nephi 3:25
 25 And they did fortify themselves against their enemies; and
they did dwell in one land, and in one body, and they did fear
the words which had been spoken by Lachoneus, insomuch that they
did repent of all their sins; and they did put up their prayers
unto the Lord their God, that he would deliver them in the time
that their enemies should come down against them to battle.

3 Nephi 3:26
 26 And they were exceedingly sorrowful because of their enemies.

And Gidgiddoni did cause that they should make weapons of war of
every kind, and they should be strong with armor, and with
shields, and with bucklers, after the manner of his instruction.

3 Nephi 4
Chapter 4

3 Nephi 4:1
 1 And it came to pass that in the latter end of the eighteenth
year those armies of robbers had prepared for battle, and began
to come down and to sally forth from the hills, and out of the
mountains, and the wilderness, and their strongholds, and their
secret places, and began to take possession of the lands, both
which were in the land south and which were in the land north,
and began to take possession of all the lands which had been
deserted by the Nephites, and the cities which had been left
desolate.

3 Nephi 4:2
 2 But behold, there were no wild beasts nor game in those lands
which had been deserted by the Nephites, and there was no game
for the robbers save it were in the wilderness.

3 Nephi 4:3
 3 And the robbers could not exist save it were in the
wilderness, for the want of food; for the Nephites had left their
lands desolate, and had gathered their flocks and their herds and
all their substance, and they were in one body.

3 Nephi 4:4
 4 Therefore, there was no chance for the robbers to plunder and
to obtain food, save it were to come up in open battle against
the Nephites; and the Nephites being in one body, and having so
great a number, and having reserved for themselves provisions,
and horses and cattle, and flocks of every kind, that they might
subsist for the space of seven years, in the which time they did
hope to destroy the robbers from off the face of the land; and
thus the eighteenth year did pass away.

3 Nephi 4:5
 5 And it came to pass that in the nineteenth year Giddianhi
found that it was expedient that he should go up to battle
against the Nephites, for there was no way that they could
subsist save it were to plunder and rob and murder.

3 Nephi 4:6
 6 And they durst not spread themselves upon the face of the land
insomuch that they could raise grain, lest the Nephites should
come upon them and slay them; therefore Giddianhi gave
commandment unto his armies that in this year they should go up
to battle against the Nephites.

3 Nephi 4:7
 7 And it came to pass that they did come up to battle; and it
was in the sixth month; and behold, great and terrible was the
day that they did come up to battle; and they were girded about
after the manner of robbers; and they had a lamb-skin about their
loins, and they were dyed in blood, and their heads were shorn,
and they had head-plates upon them; and great and terrible was
the appearance of the armies of Giddianhi, because of their
armor, and because of their being dyed in blood.

3 Nephi 4:8
 8 And it came to pass that the armies of the Nephites, when they
saw the appearance of the army of Giddianhi, had all fallen to
the earth, and did lift their cries to the Lord their God, that
he would spare them and deliver them out of the hands of their
enemies.

3 Nephi 4:9
 9 And it came to pass that when the armies of Giddianhi saw this
they began to shout with a loud voice, because of their joy, for
they had supposed that the Nephites had fallen with fear because
of the terror of their armies.

3 Nephi 4:10
 10 But in this thing they were disappointed, for the Nephites
did not fear them; but they did fear their God and did supplicate
him for protection; therefore, when the armies of Giddianhi did
rush upon them they were prepared to meet them; yea, in the
strength of the Lord they did receive them.

3 Nephi 4:11
 11 And the battle commenced in this the sixth month; and great
and terrible was the battle thereof, yea, great and terrible was
the slaughter thereof, insomuch that there never was known so
great a slaughter among all the people of Lehi since he left
Jerusalem.

3 Nephi 4:12
 12 And notwithstanding the threatenings and the oaths which
Giddianhi had made, behold, the Nephites did beat them, insomuch
that they did fall back from before them.

3 Nephi 4:13
 13 And it came to pass that Gidgiddoni commanded that his armies
should pursue them as far as the borders of the wilderness, and
that they should not spare any that should fall into their hands
by the way; and thus they did pursue them and did slay them, to
the borders of the wilderness, even until they had fulfilled the
commandment of Gidgiddoni.

3 Nephi 4:14
 14 And it came to pass that Giddianhi, who had stood and fought
with boldness, was pursued as he fled; and being weary because of
his much fighting he was overtaken and slain.  And thus was the
end of Giddianhi the robber.

3 Nephi 4:15
 15 And it came to pass that the armies of the Nephites did
return again to their place of security.  And it came to pass
that this nineteenth year did pass away, and the robbers did not
come again to battle; neither did they come again in the
twentieth year.

3 Nephi 4:16
 16 And in the twenty and first year they did not come up to
battle, but they came up on all sides to lay siege round about
the people of Nephi; for they did suppose that if they should cut
off the people of Nephi from their lands, and should hem them in
on every side, and if they should cut them off from all their
outward privileges, that they could cause them to yield
themselves up according to their wishes.

3 Nephi 4:17
 17 Now they had appointed unto themselves another leader, whose
name was Zemnarihah; therefore it was Zemnarihah that did cause
that this siege should take place.

3 Nephi 4:18
 18 But behold, this was an advantage to the Nephites; for it was
impossible for the robbers to lay siege sufficiently long to have
any effect upon the Nephites, because of their much provision
which they had laid up in store,

3 Nephi 4:19
 19 And because of the scantiness of provisions among the
robbers--for behold, they had nothing save it were meat for their
subsistence, which meat they did obtain in the wilderness;

3 Nephi 4:20
 20 And it came to pass that the wild game became scarce in the
wilderness--insomuch that the robbers were about to perish with
hunger.

3 Nephi 4:21
 21 And the Nephites were continually marching out by day and by
night, and falling upon their armies, and cutting them off by
thousands and by tens of thousands.

3 Nephi 4:22
 22 And thus it became the desire of the people of Zemnarihah to
withdraw from their design, because of the great destruction
which came upon them by night and by day.

3 Nephi 4:23
 23 And it came to pass that Zemnarihah did give command unto his
people that they should withdraw themselves from the siege, and
march into the furthermost parts of the land northward.

3 Nephi 4:24
 24 And now, Gidgiddoni being aware of their design, and knowing
of their weakness because of the want of food, and the great
slaughter which had been made among them, therefore he did send
out his armies in the night-time, and did cut off the way of
their retreat, and did place his armies in the way of their
retreat.

3 Nephi 4:25
 25 And this did they do in the night-time, and got on their
march beyond the robbers, so that on the morrow, when the robbers
began their march, they were met by the armies of the Nephites
both in their front and in their rear.

3 Nephi 4:26
 26 And the robbers who were on the south were also cut off in
their places of retreat.  And all these things were done by
command of Gidgiddoni.

3 Nephi 4:27
 27 And there were many thousands who did yield themselves up
prisoners unto the Nephites, and the remainder of them were
slain.

3 Nephi 4:28
 28 And their leader, Zemnarihah, was taken and hanged upon a
tree, yea, even upon the top thereof until he was dead.  And when
they had hanged him until he was dead they did fell the tree to
the earth, and did cry with a loud voice, saying:

3 Nephi 4:29
 29 May the Lord preserve his people in righteousness and in
holiness of heart, that they may cause to be felled to the earth
all who shall seek to slay them because of power and secret
combinations, even as this man hath been felled to the earth.

3 Nephi 4:30
 30 And they did rejoice and cry again with one voice, saying:
May the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of
Jacob, protect this people in righteousness, so long as they
shall call on the name of their God for protection.

3 Nephi 4:31
 31 And it came to pass that they did break forth, all as one, in
singing, and praising their God for the great thing which he had
done for them, in preserving them from falling into the hands of
their enemies.

3 Nephi 4:32
 32 Yea, they did cry: Hosanna to the Most High God.  And they
did cry: Blessed be the name of the Lord God Almighty, the Most
High God.

3 Nephi 4:33
 33 And their hearts were swollen with joy, unto the gushing out
of many tears, because of the great goodness of God in delivering
them out of the hands of their enemies; and they knew it was
because of their repentance and their humility that they had been
delivered from an everlasting destruction.

3 Nephi 5
Chapter 5

3 Nephi 5:1
 1 And now behold, there was not a living soul among all the
people of the Nephites who did doubt in the least the words of
all the holy prophets who had spoken; for they knew that it must
needs be that they must be fulfilled.

3 Nephi 5:2
 2 And they knew that it must be expedient that Christ had come,
because of the many signs which had been given, according to the
words of the prophets; and because of the things which had come
to pass already they knew that it must needs be that all things
should come to pass according to that which had been spoken.

3 Nephi 5:3
 3 Therefore they did forsake all their sins, and their
abominations, and their whoredoms, and did serve God with all
diligence day and night.

3 Nephi 5:4
 4 And now it came to pass that when they had taken all the
robbers prisoners, insomuch that none did escape who were not
slain, they did cast their prisoners into prison, and did cause
the word of God to be preached unto them; and as many as would
repent of their sins and enter into a covenant that they would
murder no more were set at liberty.

3 Nephi 5:5
 5 But as many as there were who did not enter into a covenant,
and who did still continue to have those secret murders in their
hearts, yea, as many as were found breathing out threatenings
against their brethren were condemned and punished according to
the law.

3 Nephi 5:6
 6 And thus they did put an end to all those wicked, and secret,
and abominable combinations, in the which there was so much
wickedness, and so many murders committed.

3 Nephi 5:7
 7 And thus had the twenty and second year passed away, and the
twenty and third year also, and the twenty and fourth, and the
twenty and fifth; and thus had twenty and five years passed away.

3 Nephi 5:8
 8 And there had many things transpired which, in the eyes of
some, would be great and marvelous; nevertheless, they cannot all
be written in this book; yea, this book cannot contain even a
hundredth part of what was done among so many people in the space
of twenty and five years;

3 Nephi 5:9
 9 But behold there are records which do contain all the
proceedings of this people; and a shorter but true account was
given by Nephi.

3 Nephi 5:10
 10 Therefore I have made my record of these things according to
the record of Nephi, which was engraven on the plates which were
called the plates of Nephi.

3 Nephi 5:11
 11 And behold, I do make the record on plates which I have made
with mine own hands.

3 Nephi 5:12
 12 And behold, I am called Mormon, being called after the land
of Mormon, the land in which Alma did establish the church among
the people, yea, the first church which was established among
them after their transgression.

3 Nephi 5:13
 13 Behold, I am a disciple of Jesus Christ, the Son of God.  I
have been called of him to declare his word among his people,
that they might have everlasting life.

3 Nephi 5:14
 14 And it hath become expedient that I, according to the will of
God, that the prayers of those who have gone hence, who were the
holy ones, should be fulfilled according to their faith, should
make a record of these things which have been done--

3 Nephi 5:15
 15 Yea, a small record of that which hath taken place from the
time that Lehi left Jerusalem, even down until the present time.

3 Nephi 5:16
 16 Therefore I do make my record from the accounts which have
been given by those who were before me, until the commencement of
my day;

3 Nephi 5:17
 17 And then I do make a record of the things which I have seen
with mine own eyes.

3 Nephi 5:18
 18 And I know the record which I make to be a just and a true
record; nevertheless there are many things which, according to
our language, we are not able to write.

3 Nephi 5:19
 19 And now I make an end of my saying, which is of myself, and
proceed to give my account of the things which have been before
me.

3 Nephi 5:20
 20 I am Mormon, and a pure descendant of Lehi.  I have reason to
bless my God and my Savior Jesus Christ, that he brought our
fathers out of the land of Jerusalem, (and no one knew it save it
were himself and those whom he brought out of that land) and that
he hath given me and my people so much knowledge unto the
salvation of our souls.

3 Nephi 5:21
 21 Surely he hath blessed the house of Jacob, and hath been
merciful unto the seed of Joseph.

3 Nephi 5:22
 22 And insomuch as the children of Lehi have kept his
commandments he hath blessed them and prospered them according to
his word.

3 Nephi 5:23
 23 Yea, and surely shall he again bring a remnant of the seed of
Joseph to the knowledge of the Lord their God.

3 Nephi 5:24
 24 And as surely as the Lord liveth, will he gather in from the
four quarters of the earth all the remnant of the seed of Jacob,
who are scattered abroad upon all the face of the earth.

3 Nephi 5:25
 25 And as he hath covenanted with all the house of Jacob, even
so shall the covenant wherewith he hath covenanted with the house
of Jacob be fulfilled in his own due time, unto the restoring all
the house of Jacob unto the knowledge of the covenant that he
hath covenanted with them.

3 Nephi 5:26
 26 And then shall they know their Redeemer, who is Jesus Christ,
the Son of God; and then shall they be gathered in from the four
quarters of the earth unto their own lands, from whence they have
been dispersed; yea, as the Lord liveth so shall it be.  Amen.

3 Nephi 6
Chapter 6

3 Nephi 6:1
 1 And now it came to pass that the people of the Nephites did
all return to their own lands in the twenty and sixth year, every
man, with his family, his flocks and his herds, his horses and
his cattle, and all things whatsoever did belong unto them.

3 Nephi 6:2
 2 And it came to pass that they had not eaten up all their
provisions; therefore they did take with them all that they had
not devoured, of all their grain of every kind, and their gold,
and their silver, and all their precious things, and they did
return to their own lands and their possessions, both on the
north and on the south, both on the land northward and on the
land southward.

3 Nephi 6:3
 3 And they granted unto those robbers who had entered into a
covenant to keep the peace of the land, who were desirous to
remain Lamanites, lands, according to their numbers, that they
might have, with their labors, wherewith to subsist upon; and
thus they did establish peace in all the land.

3 Nephi 6:4
 4 And they began again to prosper and to wax great; and the
twenty and sixth and seventh years passed away, and there was
great order in the land; and they had formed their laws according
to equity and justice.

3 Nephi 6:5
 5 And now there was nothing in all the land to hinder the people
from prospering continually, except they should fall into
transgression.

3 Nephi 6:6
 6 And now it was Gidgiddoni, and the judge, Lachoneus, and those
who had been appointed leaders, who had established this great
peace in the land.

3 Nephi 6:7
 7 And it came to pass that there were many cities built anew,
and there were many old cities repaired.

3 Nephi 6:8
 8 And there were many highways cast up, and many roads made,
which led from city to city, and from land to land, and from
place to place.

3 Nephi 6:9
 9 And thus passed away the twenty and eighth year, and the
people had continual peace.

3 Nephi 6:10
 10 But it came to pass in the twenty and ninth year there began
to be some disputings among the people; and some were lifted up
unto pride and boastings because of their exceedingly great
riches, yea, even unto great persecutions;

3 Nephi 6:11
 11 For there were many merchants in the land, and also many
lawyers, and many officers.

3 Nephi 6:12
 12 And the people began to be distinguished by ranks, according
to their riches and their chances for learning, yea, some were
ignorant because of their poverty, and others did receive great
learning because of their riches.

3 Nephi 6:13
 13 Some were lifted up in pride, and others were exceedingly
humble; some did return railing for railing, while others would
receive railing and persecution and all manner of afflictions,
and would not turn and revile again, but were humble and penitent
before God.

3 Nephi 6:14
 14 And thus there became a great inequality in all the land,
insomuch that the church began to be broken up; yea, insomuch
that in the thirtieth year the church was broken up in all the
land save it were among a few of the Lamanites who were converted
unto the true faith; and they would not depart from it, for they
were firm, and steadfast, and immovable, willing with all
diligence to keep the commandments of the Lord.

3 Nephi 6:15
 15 Now the cause of this iniquity of the people was this--Satan
had great power, unto the stirring up of the people to do all
manner of iniquity, and to the puffing them up with pride,
tempting them to seek for power, and authority, and riches, and
the vain things of the world.

3 Nephi 6:16
 16 And thus Satan did lead away the hearts of the people to do
all manner of iniquity; therefore they had enjoyed peace but a
few years.

3 Nephi 6:17
 17 And thus, in the commencement of the thirtieth year--the
people having been delivered up for the space of a long time to
be carried about by the temptations of the devil whithersoever he
desired to carry them, and to do whatsoever iniquity he desired
they should--and thus in the commencement of this, the thirtieth
year, they were in a state of awful wickedness.

3 Nephi 6:18
 18 Now they did not sin ignorantly, for they knew the will of
God concerning them, for it had been taught unto them; therefore
they did wilfully rebel against God.

3 Nephi 6:19
 19 And now it was in the days of Lachoneus, the son of
Lachoneus, for Lachoneus did fill the seat of his father and did
govern the people that year.

3 Nephi 6:20
 20 And there began to be men inspired from heaven and sent
forth, standing among the people in all the land, preaching and
testifying boldly of the sins and iniquities of the people, and
testifying unto them concerning the redemption which the Lord
would make for his people, or in other words, the resurrection of
Christ; and they did testify boldly of his death and sufferings.

3 Nephi 6:21
 21 Now there were many of the people who were exceedingly angry
because of those who testified of these things; and those who
were angry were chiefly the chief judges, and they who had been
high priests and lawyers; yea, all those who were lawyers were
angry with those who testified of these things.

3 Nephi 6:22
 22 Now there was no lawyer nor judge nor high priest that could
have power to condemn any one to death save their condemnation
was signed by the governor of the land.

3 Nephi 6:23
 23 Now there were many of those who testified of the things
pertaining to Christ who testified boldly, who were taken and put
to death secretly by the judges, that the knowledge of their
death came not unto the governor of the land until after their
death.

3 Nephi 6:24
 24 Now behold, this was contrary to the laws of the land, that
any man should be put to death except they had power from the
governor of the land--

3 Nephi 6:25
 25 Therefore a complaint came up unto the land of Zarahemla, to
the governor of the land, against these judges who had condemned
the prophets of the Lord unto death, not according to the law.

3 Nephi 6:26
 26 Now it came to pass that they were taken and brought up
before the judge to be judged of the crime which they had done,
according to the law which had been given by the people.

3 Nephi 6:27
 27 Now it came to pass that those judges had many friends and
kindreds; and the remainder, yea, even almost all the lawyers and
the high priests, did gather themselves together, and unite with
the kindreds of those judges who were to be tried according to
the law.

3 Nephi 6:28
 28 And they did enter into a covenant one with another, yea,
even into that covenant which was given by them of old, which
covenant was given and administered by the devil, to combine
against all righteousness.

3 Nephi 6:29
 29 Therefore they did combine against the people of the Lord,
and enter into a covenant to destroy them, and to deliver those
who were guilty of murder from the grasp of justice, which was
about to be administered according to the law.

3 Nephi 6:30
 30 And they did set at defiance the law and the rights of their
country; and they did covenant one with another to destroy the
governor, and to establish a king over the land, that the land
should no more be at liberty but should be subject unto kings.

3 Nephi 7
Chapter 7

3 Nephi 7:1
 1 Now behold, I will show unto you that they did not establish a
king over the land; but in this same year, yea, the thirtieth
year, they did destroy upon the judgment seat, yea, did murder
the chief judge of the land.

3 Nephi 7:2
 2 And the people were divided one against another; and they did
separate one from another into tribes, every man according to his
family and his kindred and friends; and thus they did destroy the
government of the land.

3 Nephi 7:3
 3 And every tribe did appoint a chief or a leader over them; and
thus they became tribes and leaders of tribes.

3 Nephi 7:4
 4 Now behold, there was no man among them save he had much
family and many kindreds and friends; therefore their tribes
became exceedingly great.

3 Nephi 7:5
 5 Now all this was done, and there were no wars as yet among
them; and all this iniquity had come upon the people because they
did yield themselves unto the power of Satan.

3 Nephi 7:6
 6 And the regulations of the government were destroyed, because
of the secret combination of the friends and kindreds of those
who murdered the prophets.

3 Nephi 7:7
 7 And they did cause a great contention in the land, insomuch
that the more righteous part of the people had nearly all become
wicked; yea, there were but few righteous men among them.

3 Nephi 7:8
 8 And thus six years had not passed away since the more part of
the people had turned from their righteousness, like the dog to
his vomit, or like the sow to her wallowing in the mire.

3 Nephi 7:9
 9 Now this secret combination, which had brought so great
iniquity upon the people, did gather themselves together, and did
place at their head a man whom they did call Jacob;

3 Nephi 7:10
 10 And they did call him their king; therefore he became a king
over this wicked band; and he was one of the chiefest who had
given his voice against the prophets who testified of Jesus.

3 Nephi 7:11
 11 And it came to pass that they were not so strong in number as
the tribes of the people, who were united together save it were
their leaders did establish their laws, every one according to
his tribe; nevertheless they were enemies; notwithstanding they
were not a righteous people, yet they were united in the hatred
of those who had entered into a covenant to destroy the
government.

3 Nephi 7:12
 12 Therefore, Jacob seeing that their enemies were more numerous
than they, he being the king of the band, therefore he commanded
his people that they should take their flight into the
northernmost part of the land, and there build up unto themselves
a kingdom, until they were joined by dissenters, (for he
flattered them that there would be many dissenters) and they
become sufficiently strong to contend with the tribes of the
people; and they did so.

3 Nephi 7:13
 13 And so speedy was their march that it could not be impeded
until they had gone forth out of the reach of the people.  And
thus ended the thirtieth year; and thus were the affairs of the
people of Nephi.

3 Nephi 7:14
 14 And it came to pass in the thirty and first year that they
were divided into tribes, every man according to his family,
kindred and friends; nevertheless they had come to an agreement
that they would not go to war one with another; but they were not
united as to their laws, and their manner of government, for they
were established according to the minds of those who were their
chiefs and their leaders.  But they did establish very strict
laws that one tribe should not trespass against another, insomuch
that in some degree they had peace in the land; nevertheless,
their hearts were turned from the Lord their God, and they did
stone the prophets and did cast them out from among them.

3 Nephi 7:15
 15 And it came to pass that Nephi--having been visited by angels
and also the voice of the Lord, therefore having seen angels, and
being eye-witness, and having had power given unto him that he
might know concerning the ministry of Christ, and also being
eye-witness to their quick return from righteousness unto their
wickedness and abominations;

3 Nephi 7:16
 16 Therefore, being grieved for the hardness of their hearts and
the blindness of their minds--went forth among them in that same
year, and began to testify, boldly, repentance and remission of
sins through faith on the Lord Jesus Christ.

3 Nephi 7:17
 17 And he did minister many things unto them; and all of them
cannot be written, and a part of them would not suffice,
therefore they are not written in this book.  And Nephi did
minister with power and with great authority.

3 Nephi 7:18
 18 And it came to pass that they were angry with him, even
because he had greater power than they, for it were not possible
that they could disbelieve his words, for so great was his faith
on the Lord Jesus Christ that angels did minister unto him daily.

3 Nephi 7:19
 19 And in the name of Jesus did he cast out devils and unclean
spirits; and even his brother did he raise from the dead, after
he had been stoned and suffered death by the people.

3 Nephi 7:20
 20 And the people saw it, and did witness of it, and were angry
with him because of his power; and he did also do many more
miracles, in the sight of the people, in the name of Jesus.

3 Nephi 7:21
 21 And it came to pass that the thirty and first year did pass
away, and there were but few who were converted unto the Lord;
but as many as were converted did truly signify unto the people
that they had been visited by the power and Spirit of God, which
was in Jesus Christ, in whom they believed.

3 Nephi 7:22
 22 And as many as had devils cast out from them, and were healed
of their sicknesses and their infirmities, did truly manifest
unto the people that they had been wrought upon by the Spirit of
God, and had been healed; and they did show forth signs also and
did do some miracles among the people.

3 Nephi 7:23
 23 Thus passed away the thirty and second year also.  And Nephi
did cry unto the people in the commencement of the thirty and
third year; and he did preach unto them repentance and remission
of sins.

3 Nephi 7:24
 24 Now I would have you to remember also, that there were none
who were brought unto repentance who were not baptized with
water.

3 Nephi 7:25
 25 Therefore, there were ordained of Nephi, men unto this
ministry, that all such as should come unto them should be
baptized with water, and this as a witness and a testimony before
God, and unto the people, that they had repented and received a
remission of their sins.

3 Nephi 7:26
 26 And there were many in the commencement of this year that
were baptized unto repentance; and thus the more part of the year
did pass away.

3 Nephi 8
Chapter 8

3 Nephi 8:1
 1 And now it came to pass that according to our record, and we
know our record to be true, for behold, it was a just man who did
keep the record--for he truly did many miracles in the name of
Jesus; and there was not any man who could do a miracle in the
name of Jesus save he were cleansed every whit from his
iniquity--

3 Nephi 8:2
 2 And now it came to pass, if there was no mistake made by this
man in the reckoning of our time, the thirty and third year had
passed away;

3 Nephi 8:3
 3 And the people began to look with great earnestness for the
sign which had been given by the prophet Samuel, the Lamanite,
yea, for the time that there should be darkness for the space of
three days over the face of the land.

3 Nephi 8:4
 4 And there began to be great doubtings and disputations among
the people, notwithstanding so many signs had been given.

3 Nephi 8:5
 5 And it came to pass in the thirty and fourth year, in the
first month, on the fourth day of the month, there arose a great
storm, such an one as never had been known in all the land.

3 Nephi 8:6
 6 And there was also a great and terrible tempest; and there was
terrible thunder, insomuch that it did shake the whole earth as
if it was about to divide asunder.

3 Nephi 8:7
 7 And there were exceedingly sharp lightnings, such as never had
been known in all the land.

3 Nephi 8:8
 8 And the city of Zarahemla did take fire.

3 Nephi 8:9
 9 And the city of Moroni did sink into the depths of the sea,
and the inhabitants thereof were drowned.

3 Nephi 8:10
 10 And the earth was carried up upon the city of Moronihah that
in the place of the city there became a great mountain.

3 Nephi 8:11
 11 And there was a great and terrible destruction in the land
southward.

3 Nephi 8:12
 12 But behold, there was a more great and terrible destruction
in the land northward; for behold, the whole face of the land was
changed, because of the tempest and the whirlwinds and the
thunderings and the lightnings, and the exceedingly great quaking
of the whole earth;

3 Nephi 8:13
 13 And the highways were broken up, and the level roads were
spoiled, and many smooth places became rough.

3 Nephi 8:14
 14 And many great and notable cities were sunk, and many were
burned, and many were shaken till the buildings thereof had
fallen to the earth, and the inhabitants thereof were slain, and
the places were left desolate.

3 Nephi 8:15
 15 And there were some cities which remained; but the damage
thereof was exceedingly great, and there were many of them who
were slain.

3 Nephi 8:16
 16 And there were some who were carried away in the whirlwind;
and whither they went no man knoweth, save they know that they
were carried away.

3 Nephi 8:17
 17 And thus the face of the whole earth became deformed, because
of the tempests, and the thunderings, and the lightnings, and the
quaking of the earth.

3 Nephi 8:18
 18 And behold, the rocks were rent in twain; they were broken up
upon the face of the whole earth, insomuch that they were found
in broken fragments, and in seams and in cracks, upon all the
face of the land.

3 Nephi 8:19
 19 And it came to pass that when the thunderings, and the
lightnings, and the storm, and the tempest, and the quakings of
the earth did cease--for behold, they did last for about the
space of three hours; and it was said by some that the time was
greater; nevertheless, all these great and terrible things were
done in about the space of three hours--and then behold, there
was darkness upon the face of the land.

3 Nephi 8:20
 20 And it came to pass that there was thick darkness upon all
the face of the land, insomuch that the inhabitants thereof who
had not fallen could feel the vapor of darkness;

3 Nephi 8:21
 21 And there could be no light, because of the darkness, neither
candles, neither torches; neither could there be fire kindled
with their fine and exceedingly dry wood, so that there could not
be any light at all;

3 Nephi 8:22
 22 And there was not any light seen, neither fire, nor glimmer,
neither the sun, nor the moon, nor the stars, for so great were
the mists of darkness which were upon the face of the land.

3 Nephi 8:23
 23 And it came to pass that it did last for the space of three
days that there was no light seen; and there was great mourning
and howling and weeping among all the people continually; yea,
great were the groanings of the people, because of the darkness
and the great destruction which had come upon them.

3 Nephi 8:24
 24 And in one place they were heard to cry, saying: O that we
had repented before this great and terrible day, and then would
our brethren have been spared, and they would not have been
burned in that great city Zarahemla.

3 Nephi 8:25
 25 And in another place they were heard to cry and mourn,
saying: O that we had repented before this great and terrible
day, and had not killed and stoned the prophets, and cast them
out; then would our mothers and our fair daughters, and our
children have been spared, and not have been buried up in that
great city Moronihah.  And thus were the howlings of the people
great and terrible.

3 Nephi 9
Chapter 9

3 Nephi 9:1
 1 And it came to pass that there was a voice heard among all the
inhabitants of the earth, upon all the face of this land, crying:

3 Nephi 9:2
 2 Wo, wo, wo unto this people; wo unto the inhabitants of the
whole earth except they shall repent; for the devil laugheth, and
his angels rejoice, because of the slain of the fair sons and
daughters of my people; and it is because of their iniquity and
abominations that they are fallen!

3 Nephi 9:3
 3 Behold, that great city Zarahemla have I burned with fire, and
the inhabitants thereof.

3 Nephi 9:4
 4 And behold, that great city Moroni have I caused to be sunk in
the depths of the sea, and the inhabitants thereof to be drowned.

3 Nephi 9:5
 5 And behold, that great city Moronihah have I covered with
earth, and the inhabitants thereof, to hide their iniquities and
their abominations from before my face, that the blood of the
prophets and the saints shall not come any more unto me against
them.

3 Nephi 9:6
 6 And behold, the city of Gilgal have I caused to be sunk, and
the inhabitants thereof to be buried up in the depths of the
earth;

3 Nephi 9:7
 7 Yea, and the city of Onihah and the inhabitants thereof, and
the city of Mocum and the inhabitants thereof, and the city of
Jerusalem and the inhabitants thereof; and waters have I caused
to come up in the stead thereof, to hide their wickedness and
abominations from before my face, that the blood of the prophets
and the saints shall not come up any more unto me against them.

3 Nephi 9:8
 8 And behold, the city of Gadiandi, and the city of Gadiomnah,
and the city of Jacob, and the city of Gimgimno, all these have I
caused to be sunk, and made hills and valleys in the places
thereof; and the inhabitants thereof have I buried up in the
depths of the earth, to hide their wickedness and abominations
from before my face, that the blood of the prophets and the
saints should not come up any more unto me against them.

3 Nephi 9:9
 9 And behold, that great city Jacobugath, which was inhabited by
the people of king Jacob, have I caused to be burned with fire
because of their sins and their wickedness, which was above all
the wickedness of the whole earth, because of their secret
murders and combinations; for it was they that did destroy the
peace of my people and the government of the land; therefore I
did cause them to be burned, to destroy them from before my face,
that the blood of the prophets and the saints should not come up
unto me any more against them.

3 Nephi 9:10
 10 And behold, the city of Laman, and the city of Josh, and the
city of Gad, and the city of Kishkumen, have I caused to be
burned with fire, and the inhabitants thereof, because of their
wickedness in casting out the prophets, and stoning those whom I
did send to declare unto them concerning their wickedness and
their abominations.

3 Nephi 9:11
 11 And because they did cast them all out, that there were none
righteous among them, I did send down fire and destroy them, that
their wickedness and abominations might be hid from before my
face, that the blood of the prophets and the saints whom I sent
among them might not cry unto me from the ground against them.

3 Nephi 9:12
 12 And many great destructions have I caused to come upon this
land, and upon this people, because of their wickedness and their
abominations.

3 Nephi 9:13
 13 O all ye that are spared because ye were more righteous than
they, will ye not now return unto me, and repent of your sins,
and be converted, that I may heal you?

3 Nephi 9:14
 14 Yea, verily I say unto you, if ye will come unto me ye shall
have eternal life.  Behold, mine arm of mercy is extended towards
you, and whosoever will come, him will I receive; and blessed are
those who come unto me.

3 Nephi 9:15
 15 Behold, I am Jesus Christ the Son of God.  I created the
heavens and the earth, and all things that in them are.  I was
with the Father from the beginning.  I am in the Father, and the
Father in me; and in me hath the Father glorified his name.

3 Nephi 9:16
 16 I came unto my own, and my own received me not.  And the
scriptures concerning my coming are fulfilled.

3 Nephi 9:17
 17 And as many as have received me, to them have I given to
become the sons of God; and even so will I to as many as shall
believe on my name, for behold, by me redemption cometh, and in
me is the law of Moses fulfilled.

3 Nephi 9:18
 18 I am the light and the life of the world.  I am Alpha and
Omega, the beginning and the end.

3 Nephi 9:19
 19 And ye shall offer up unto me no more the shedding of blood;
yea, your sacrifices and your burnt offerings shall be done away,
for I will accept none of your sacrifices and your burnt
offerings.

3 Nephi 9:20
 20 And ye shall offer for a sacrifice unto me a broken heart and
a contrite spirit.  And whoso cometh unto me with a broken heart
and a contrite spirit, him will I baptize with fire and with the
Holy Ghost, even as the Lamanites, because of their faith in me
at the time of their conversion, were baptized with fire and with
the Holy Ghost, and they knew it not.

3 Nephi 9:21
 21 Behold, I have come unto the world to bring redemption unto
the world, to save the world from sin.

3 Nephi 9:22
 22 Therefore, whoso repenteth and cometh unto me as a little
child, him will I receive, for of such is the kingdom of God. 
Behold, for such I have laid down my life, and have taken it up
again; therefore repent, and come unto me ye ends of the earth,
and be saved.

3 Nephi 10
Chapter 10

3 Nephi 10:1
 1 And now behold, it came to pass that all the people of the
land did hear these sayings, and did witness of it.  And after
these sayings there was silence in the land for the space of many
hours;

3 Nephi 10:2
 2 For so great was the astonishment of the people that they did
cease lamenting and howling for the loss of their kindred which
had been slain; therefore there was silence in all the land for
the space of many hours.

3 Nephi 10:3
 3 And it came to pass that there came a voice again unto the
people, and all the people did hear, and did witness of it,
saying:

3 Nephi 10:4
 4 O ye people of these great cities which have fallen, who are
descendants of Jacob, yea, who are of the house of Israel, how
oft have I gathered you as a hen gathereth her chickens under her
wings, and have nourished you.

3 Nephi 10:5
 5 And again, how oft would I have gathered you as a hen
gathereth her chickens under her wings, yea, O ye people of the
house of Israel, who have fallen; yea, O ye people of the house
of Israel, ye that dwell at Jerusalem, as ye that have fallen;
yea, how oft would I have gathered you as a hen gathereth her
chickens, and ye would not.

3 Nephi 10:6
 6 O ye house of Israel whom I have spared, how oft will I gather
you as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, if ye will
repent and return unto me with full purpose of heart.

3 Nephi 10:7
 7 But if not, O house of Israel, the places of your dwellings
shall become desolate until the time of the fulfilling of the
covenant to your fathers.

3 Nephi 10:8
 8 And now it came to pass that after the people had heard these
words, behold, they began to weep and howl again because of the
loss of their kindred and friends.

3 Nephi 10:9
 9 And it came to pass that thus did the three days pass away. 
And it was in the morning, and the darkness dispersed from off
the face of the land, and the earth did cease to tremble, and the
rocks did cease to rend, and the dreadful groanings did cease,
and all the tumultuous noises did pass away.

3 Nephi 10:10
 10 And the earth did cleave together again, that it stood; and
the mourning, and the weeping, and the wailing of the people who
were spared alive did cease; and their mourning was turned into
joy, and their lamentations into the praise and thanksgiving unto
the Lord Jesus Christ, their Redeemer.

3 Nephi 10:11
 11 And thus far were the scriptures fulfilled which had been
spoken by the prophets.

3 Nephi 10:12
 12 And it was the more righteous part of the people who were
saved, and it was they who received the prophets and stoned them
not; and it was they who had not shed the blood of the saints,
who were spared--

3 Nephi 10:13
 13 And they were spared and were not sunk and buried up in the
earth; and they were not drowned in the depths of the sea; and
they were not burned by fire, neither were they fallen upon and
crushed to death; and they were not carried away in the
whirlwind; neither were they overpowered by the vapor of smoke
and of darkness.

3 Nephi 10:14
 14 And now, whoso readeth, let him understand; he that hath the
scriptures, let him search them, and see and behold if all these
deaths and destructions by fire, and by smoke, and by tempests,
and by whirlwinds, and by the opening of the earth to receive
them, and all these things are not unto the fulfilling of the
prophecies of many of the holy prophets.

3 Nephi 10:15
 15 Behold, I say unto you, Yea, many have testified of these
things at the coming of Christ, and were slain because they
testified of these things.

3 Nephi 10:16
 16 Yea, the prophet Zenos did testify of these things, and also
Zenock spake concerning these things, because they testified
particularly concerning us, who are the remnant of their seed.

3 Nephi 10:17
 17 Behold, our father Jacob also testified concerning a remnant
of the seed of Joseph.  And behold, are not we a remnant of the
seed of Joseph?  And these things which testify of us, are they
not written upon the plates of brass which our father Lehi
brought out of Jerusalem?

3 Nephi 10:18
 18 And it came to pass that in the ending of the thirty and
fourth year, behold, I will show unto you that the people of
Nephi who were spared, and also those who had been called
Lamanites, who had been spared, did have great favors shown unto
them, and great blessings poured out upon their heads, insomuch
that soon after the ascension of Christ into heaven he did truly
manifest himself unto them--

3 Nephi 10:19
 19 Showing his body unto them, and ministering unto them; and an
account of his ministry shall be given hereafter.  Therefore for
this time I make an end of my sayings.

3 Nephi 11
Chapter 11

3 Nephi 11:1
 1 And now it came to pass that there were a great multitude
gathered together, of the people of Nephi, round about the temple
which was in the land Bountiful; and they were marveling and
wondering one with another, and were showing one to another the
great and marvelous change which had taken place.
3 Nephi 11:2
 2 And they were also conversing about this Jesus Christ, of whom
the sign had been given concerning his death.

3 Nephi 11:3
 3 And it came to pass that while they were thus conversing one
with another, they heard a voice as if it came out of heaven; and
they cast their eyes round about, for they understood not the
voice which they heard; and it was not a harsh voice, neither was
it a loud voice; nevertheless, and notwithstanding it being a
small voice it did pierce them that did hear to the center,
insomuch that there was no part of their frame that it did not
cause to quake; yea, it did pierce them to the very soul, and did
cause their hearts to burn.

3 Nephi 11:4
 4 And it came to pass that again they heard the voice, and they
understood it not.

3 Nephi 11:5
 5 And again the third time they did hear the voice, and did open
their ears to hear it; and their eyes were towards the sound
thereof; and they did look steadfastly towards heaven, from
whence the sound came.

3 Nephi 11:6
 6 And behold, the third time they did understand the voice which
they heard; and it said unto them:

3 Nephi 11:7
 7 Behold my Beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased, in whom I
have glorified my name--hear ye him.

3 Nephi 11:8
 8 And it came to pass, as they understood they cast their eyes
up again towards heaven; and behold, they saw a Man descending
out of heaven; and he was clothed in a white robe; and he came
down and stood in the midst of them; and the eyes of the whole
multitude were turned upon him, and they durst not open their
mouths, even one to another, and wist not what it meant, for they
thought it was an angel that had appeared unto them.

3 Nephi 11:9
 9 And it came to pass that he stretched forth his hand and spake
unto the people, saying:

3 Nephi 11:10
 10 Behold, I am Jesus Christ, whom the prophets testified shall
come into the world.

3 Nephi 11:11
 11 And behold, I am the light and the life of the world; and I
have drunk out of that bitter cup which the Father hath given me,
and have glorified the Father in taking upon me the sins of the
world, in the which I have suffered the will of the Father in all
things from the beginning.

3 Nephi 11:12
 12 And it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words
the whole multitude fell to the earth; for they remembered that
it had been prophesied among them that Christ should show himself
unto them after his ascension into heaven.

3 Nephi 11:13
 13 And it came to pass that the Lord spake unto them saying:

3 Nephi 11:14
 14 Arise and come forth unto me, that ye may thrust your hands
into my side, and also that ye may feel the prints of the nails
in my hands and in my feet, that ye may know that I am the God of
Israel, and the God of the whole earth, and have been slain for
the sins of the world.

3 Nephi 11:15
 15 And it came to pass that the multitude went forth, and thrust
their hands into his side, and did feel the prints of the nails
in his hands and in his feet; and this they did do, going forth
one by one until they had all gone forth, and did see with their
eyes and did feel with their hands, and did know of a surety and
did bear record, that it was he, of whom it was written by the
prophets, that should come.

3 Nephi 11:16
 16 And when they had all gone forth and had witnessed for
themselves, they did cry out with one accord, saying:

3 Nephi 11:17
 17 Hosanna!  Blessed be the name of the Most High God!  And they
did fall down at the feet of Jesus, and did worship him.

3 Nephi 11:18
 18 And it came to pass that he spake unto Nephi (for Nephi was
among the multitude) and he commanded him that he should come
forth.

3 Nephi 11:19
 19 And Nephi arose and went forth, and bowed himself before the
Lord and did kiss his feet.

3 Nephi 11:20
 20 And the Lord commanded him that he should arise.  And he
arose and stood before him.

3 Nephi 11:21
 21 And the Lord said unto him: I give unto you power that ye
shall baptize this people when I am again ascended into heaven.

3 Nephi 11:22
 22 And again the Lord called others, and said unto them
likewise; and he gave unto them power to baptize.  And he said
unto them: On this wise shall ye baptize; and there shall be no
disputations among you.

3 Nephi 11:23
 23 Verily I say unto you, that whoso repenteth of his sins
through your words and desireth to be baptized in my name, on
this wise shall ye baptize them--Behold, ye shall go down and
stand in the water, and in my name shall ye baptize them.

3 Nephi 11:24
 24 And now behold, these are the words which ye shall say,
calling them by name, saying:

3 Nephi 11:25
 25 Having authority given me of Jesus Christ, I baptize you in
the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost. 
Amen.

3 Nephi 11:26
 26 And then shall ye immerse them in the water, and come forth
again out of the water.

3 Nephi 11:27
 27 And after this manner shall ye baptize in my name; for
behold, verily I say unto you, that the Father, and the Son, and
the Holy Ghost are one; and I am in the Father, and the Father in
me, and the Father and I are one.

3 Nephi 11:28
 28 And according as I have commanded you thus shall ye baptize. 
And there shall be no disputations among you, as there have
hitherto been; neither shall there be disputations among you
concerning the points of my doctrine, as there have hitherto
been.

3 Nephi 11:29
 29 For verily, verily I say unto you, he that hath the spirit of
contention is not of me, but is of the devil, who is the father
of contention, and he stirreth up the hearts of men to contend
with anger, one with another.

3 Nephi 11:30
 30 Behold, this is not my doctrine, to stir up the hearts of men
with anger, one against another; but this is my doctrine, that
such things should be done away.

3 Nephi 11:31
 31 Behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, I will declare unto
you my doctrine.

3 Nephi 11:32
 32 And this is my doctrine, and it is the doctrine which the
Father hath given unto me; and I bear record of the Father, and
the Father beareth record of me, and the Holy Ghost beareth
record of the Father and me; and I bear record that the Father
commandeth all men, everywhere, to repent and believe in me.

3 Nephi 11:33
 33 And whoso believeth in me, and is baptized, the same shall be
saved; and they are they who shall inherit the kingdom of God.

3 Nephi 11:34
 34 And whoso believeth not in me, and is not baptized, shall be
damned.

3 Nephi 11:35
 35 Verily, verily, I say unto you, that this is my doctrine, and
I bear record of it from the Father; and whoso believeth in me
believeth in the Father also; and unto him will the Father bear
record of me, for he will visit him with fire and with the Holy
Ghost.

3 Nephi 11:36
 36 And thus will the Father bear record of me, and the Holy
Ghost will bear record unto him of the Father and me; for the
Father, and I, and the Holy Ghost are one.

3 Nephi 11:37
 37 And again I say unto you, ye must repent, and become as a
little child, and be baptized in my name, or ye can in nowise
receive these things.

3 Nephi 11:38
 38 And again I say unto you, ye must repent, and be baptized in
my name, and become as a little child, or ye can in nowise
inherit the kingdom of God.

3 Nephi 11:39
 39 Verily, verily, I say unto you, that this is my doctrine, and
whoso buildeth upon this buildeth upon my rock, and the gates of
hell shall not prevail against them.

3 Nephi 11:40
 40 And whoso shall declare more or less than this, and establish
it for my doctrine, the same cometh of evil, and is not built
upon my rock; but he buildeth upon a sandy foundation, and the
gates of hell stand open to receive such when the floods come and
the winds beat upon them.

3 Nephi 11:41
 41 Therefore, go forth unto this people, and declare the words
which I have spoken, unto the ends of the earth.

3 Nephi 12
Chapter 12

3 Nephi 12:1
 1 And it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words
unto Nephi, and to those who had been called, (now the number of
them who had been called, and received power and authority to
baptize, was twelve) and behold, he stretched forth his hand unto
the multitude, and cried unto them, saying: Blessed are ye if ye
shall give heed unto the words of these twelve whom I have chosen
from among you to minister unto you, and to be your servants; and
unto them I have given power that they may baptize you with
water; and after that ye are baptized with water, behold, I will
baptize you with fire and with the Holy Ghost; therefore blessed
are ye if ye shall believe in me and be baptized, after that ye
have seen me and know that I am.

3 Nephi 12:2
 2 And again, more blessed are they who shall believe in your
words because that ye shall testify that ye have seen me, and
that ye know that I am. Yea, blessed are they who shall believe
in your words, and come down into the depths of humility and be
baptized, for they shall be visited with fire and with the Holy
Ghost, and shall receive a remission of their sins.

3 Nephi 12:3
 3 Yea, blessed are the poor in spirit who come unto me, for
theirs is the kingdom of heaven.

3 Nephi 12:4
 4 And again, blessed are all they that mourn, for they shall be
comforted.

3 Nephi 12:5
 5 And blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth.

3 Nephi 12:6
 6 And blessed are all they who do hunger and thirst after
righteousness, for they shall be filled with the Holy Ghost.

3 Nephi 12:7
 7 And blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy.

3 Nephi 12:8
 8 And blessed are all the pure in heart, for they shall see God.

3 Nephi 12:9
 9 And blessed are all the peacemakers, for they shall be called
the children of God.

3 Nephi 12:10
 10 And blessed are all they who are persecuted for my name's
sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.

3 Nephi 12:11
 11 And blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute,
and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my
sake;

3 Nephi 12:12
 12 For ye shall have great joy and be exceedingly glad, for
great shall be your reward in heaven; for so persecuted they the
prophets who were before you.

3 Nephi 12:13
 13 Verily, verily, I say unto you, I give unto you to be the
salt of the earth; but if the salt shall lose its savor wherewith
shall the earth be salted? The salt shall be thenceforth good for
nothing, but to be cast out and to be trodden under foot of men.

3 Nephi 12:14
 14 Verily, verily, I say unto you, I give unto you to be the
light of this people. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid.

3 Nephi 12:15
 15 Behold, do men light a candle and put it under a bushel? Nay,
but on a candlestick, and it giveth light to all that are in the
house;

3 Nephi 12:16
 16 Therefore let your light so shine before this people, that
they may see your good works and glorify your Father who is in
heaven.

3 Nephi 12:17
 17 Think not that I am come to destroy the law or the prophets.
I am not come to destroy but to fulfil;

3 Nephi 12:18
 18 For verily I say unto you, one jot nor tittle hath not passed
away from the law, but in me it hath all been fulfilled.

3 Nephi 12:19
 19 And behold, I have given you the law and the commandments of
my Father, that ye shall believe in me, and that ye shall repent
of your sins, and come unto me with a broken heart and a contrite
spirit. Behold, ye have the commandments before you, and the law
is fulfilled.

3 Nephi 12:20
 20 Therefore come unto me and be ye saved; for verily I say unto
you, that except ye shall keep my commandments, which I have
commanded you at this time, ye shall in no case enter into the
kingdom of heaven.

3 Nephi 12:21
 21 Ye have heard that it hath been said by them of old time, and
it is also written before you, that thou shalt not kill, and
whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment of God;

3 Nephi 12:22
 22 But I say unto you, that whosoever is angry with his brother
shall be in danger of his judgment. And whosoever shall say to
his brother, Raca, shall be in danger of the council; and
whosoever shall say, Thou fool, shall be in danger of hell fire.

3 Nephi 12:23
 23 Therefore, if ye shall come unto me, or shall desire to come
unto me, and rememberest that thy brother hast aught against
thee--

3 Nephi 12:24
 24 Go thy way unto thy brother, and first be reconciled to thy
brother, and then come unto me with full purpose of heart, and I
will receive you.

3 Nephi 12:25
 25 Agree with thine adversary quickly while thou art in the way
with him, lest at any time he shall get thee, and thou shalt be
cast into prison.

3 Nephi 12:26
 26 Verily, verily, I say unto thee, thou shalt by no means come
out thence until thou hast paid the uttermost senine. And while
ye are in prison can ye pay even one senine? Verily, verily, I
say unto you, Nay.

3 Nephi 12:27
 27 Behold, it is written by them of old time, that thou shalt
not commit adultery;

3 Nephi 12:28
 28 But I say unto you, that whosoever looketh on a woman, to
lust after her, hath committed adultery already in his heart.

3 Nephi 12:29
 29 Behold, I give unto you a commandment, that ye suffer none of
these things to enter into your heart;

3 Nephi 12:30
 30 For it is better that ye should deny yourselves of these
things, wherein ye will take up your cross, than that ye should
be cast into hell.

3 Nephi 12:31
 31 It hath been written, that whosoever shall put away his wife,
let him give her a writing of divorcement.

3 Nephi 12:32
 32 Verily, verily, I say unto you, that whosoever shall put away
his wife, saving for the cause of fornication, causeth her to
commit adultery; and whoso shall marry her who is divorced
committeth adultery.

3 Nephi 12:33
 33 And again it is written, thou shalt not forswear thyself, but
shalt perform unto the Lord thine oaths;

3 Nephi 12:34
 34 But verily, verily, I say unto you, swear not at all; neither
by heaven, for it is God's throne;

3 Nephi 12:35
 35 Nor by the earth, for it is his footstool;

3 Nephi 12:36
 36 Neither shalt thou swear by thy head, because thou canst not
make one hair black or white;

3 Nephi 12:37
 37 But let your communication be Yea, yea; Nay, nay; for
whatsoever cometh of more than these is evil.

3 Nephi 12:38
 38 And behold, it is written, an eye for an eye, and a tooth for
a tooth;

3 Nephi 12:39
 39 But I say unto you, that ye shall not resist evil, but
whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the
other also;

3 Nephi 12:40
 40 And if any man will sue thee at the law and take away thy
coat, let him have thy cloak also;

3 Nephi 12:41
 41 And whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him
twain.

3 Nephi 12:42
 42 Give to him that asketh thee, and from him that would borrow
of thee turn not away.

3 Nephi 12:43
 43 And behold it is written also, that thou shalt love thy
neighbor and hate thine enemy;

3 Nephi 12:44
 44 But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse
you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them who
despitefully use you and persecute you;

3 Nephi 12:45
 45 That ye may be the children of your Father who is in heaven;
for he maketh his sun to rise on the evil and on the good.

3 Nephi 12:46
 46 Therefore those things which were of old time, which were
under the law, in me are all fulfilled.

3 Nephi 12:47
 47 Old things are done away, and all things have become new.

3 Nephi 12:48
 48 Therefore I would that ye should be perfect even as I, or
your Father who is in heaven is perfect.

3 Nephi 13
Chapter 13

3 Nephi 13:1
 1 Verily, verily, I say that I would that ye should do alms unto
the poor; but take heed that ye do not your alms before men to be
seen of them; otherwise ye have no reward of your Father who is
in heaven.

3 Nephi 13:2
 2 Therefore, when ye shall do your alms do not sound a trumpet
before you, as will hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the
streets, that they may have glory of men.  Verily I say unto you,
they have their reward.

3 Nephi 13:3
 3 But when thou doest alms let not thy left hand know what thy
right hand doeth;

3 Nephi 13:4
 4 That thine alms may be in secret; and thy Father who seeth in
secret, himself shall reward thee openly.

3 Nephi 13:5
 5 And when thou prayest thou shalt not do as the hypocrites, for
they love to pray, standing in the synagogues and in the corners
of the streets, that they may be seen of men.  Verily I say unto
you, they have their reward.

3 Nephi 13:6
 6 But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when
thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father who is in secret; and
thy Father, who seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly.

3 Nephi 13:7
 7 But when ye pray, use not vain repetitions, as the heathen,
for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking.

3 Nephi 13:8
 8 Be not ye therefore like unto them, for your Father knoweth
what things ye have need of before ye ask him.

3 Nephi 13:9
 9 After this manner therefore pray ye: Our Father who art in
heaven, hallowed be thy name.

3 Nephi 13:10
 10 Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven.

3 Nephi 13:11
 11 And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors.

3 Nephi 13:12
 12 And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil.

3 Nephi 13:13
 13 For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory,
forever.  Amen.

3 Nephi 13:14
 14 For, if ye forgive men their trespasses your heavenly Father
will also forgive you;

3 Nephi 13:15
 15 But if ye forgive not men their trespasses neither will your
Father forgive your trespasses.

3 Nephi 13:16
 16 Moreover, when ye fast be not as the hypocrites, of a sad
countenance, for they disfigure their faces that they may appear
unto men to fast.  Verily I say unto you, they have their reward.

3 Nephi 13:17
 17 But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thy head, and wash thy
face;

3 Nephi 13:18
 18 That thou appear not unto men to fast, but unto thy Father,
who is in secret; and thy Father, who seeth in secret, shall
reward thee openly.

3 Nephi 13:19
 19 Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth
and rust doth corrupt, and thieves break through and steal;

3 Nephi 13:20
 20 But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither
moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break
through nor steal.

3 Nephi 13:21
 21 For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.

3 Nephi 13:22
 22 The light of the body is the eye; if, therefore, thine eye be
single, thy whole body shall be full of light.

3 Nephi 13:23
 23 But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of
darkness.  If, therefore, the light that is in thee be darkness,
how great is that darkness!

3 Nephi 13:24
 24 No man can serve two masters; for either he will hate the one
and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise
the other.  Ye cannot serve God and Mammon.

3 Nephi 13:25
 25 And now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these
words he looked upon the twelve whom he had chosen, and said unto
them: Remember the words which I have spoken.  For behold, ye are
they whom I have chosen to minister unto this people.  Therefore
I say unto you, take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat,
or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put
on.  Is not the life more than meat, and the body than raiment?

3 Nephi 13:26
 26 Behold the fowls of the air, for they sow not, neither do
they reap nor gather into barns; yet your heavenly Father feedeth
them.  Are ye not much better than they?

3 Nephi 13:27
 27 Which of you by taking thought can add one cubit unto his
stature?

3 Nephi 13:28
 28 And why take ye thought for raiment?  Consider the lilies of
the field how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin;

3 Nephi 13:29
 29 And yet I say unto you, that even Solomon, in all his glory,
was not arrayed like one of these.

3 Nephi 13:30
 30 Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of the field, which
today is, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, even so will he
clothe you, if ye are not of little faith.

3 Nephi 13:31
 31 Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat?  or,
What shall we drink?  or, Wherewithal shall we be clothed?

3 Nephi 13:32
 32 For your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all
these things.

3 Nephi 13:33
 33 But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness,
and all these things shall be added unto you.

3 Nephi 13:34
 34 Take therefore no thought for the morrow, for the morrow
shall take thought for the things of itself.  Sufficient is the
day unto the evil thereof.

3 Nephi 14
Chapter 14

3 Nephi 14:1
 1 And now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words
he turned again to the multitude, and did open his mouth unto
them again, saying: Verily, verily, I say unto you, Judge not,
that ye be not judged.

3 Nephi 14:2
 2 For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged; and with
what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again.

3 Nephi 14:3
 3 And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye,
but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye?

3 Nephi 14:4
 4 Or how wilt thou say to thy brother: Let me pull the mote out
of thine eye--and behold, a beam is in thine own eye?

3 Nephi 14:5
 5 Thou hypocrite, first cast the beam out of thine own eye; and
then shalt thou see clearly to cast the mote out of thy brother's
eye.

3 Nephi 14:6
 6 Give not that which is holy unto the dogs, neither cast ye
your pearls before swine, lest they trample them under their
feet, and turn again and rend you.

3 Nephi 14:7
 7 Ask, and it shall be given unto you; seek, and ye shall find;
knock, and it shall be opened unto you.

3 Nephi 14:8
 8 For every one that asketh, receiveth; and he that seeketh,
findeth; and to him that knocketh, it shall be opened.

3 Nephi 14:9
 9 Or what man is there of you, who, if his son ask bread, will
give him a stone?

3 Nephi 14:10
 10 Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent?

3 Nephi 14:11
 11 If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your
children, how much more shall your Father who is in heaven give
good things to them that ask him?

3 Nephi 14:12
 12 Therefore, all things whatsoever ye would that men should do
to you, do ye even so to them, for this is the law and the
prophets.

3 Nephi 14:13
 13 Enter ye in at the strait gate; for wide is the gate, and
broad is the way, which leadeth to destruction, and many there be
who go in thereat;

3 Nephi 14:14
 14 Because strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which
leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it.

3 Nephi 14:15
 15 Beware of false prophets, who come to you in sheep's
clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves.

3 Nephi 14:16
 16 Ye shall know them by their fruits.  Do men gather grapes of
thorns, or figs of thistles?

3 Nephi 14:17
 17 Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit; but a
corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit.

3 Nephi 14:18
 18 A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither a corrupt
tree bring forth good fruit.

3 Nephi 14:19
 19 Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down,
and cast into the fire.

3 Nephi 14:20
 20 Wherefore, by their fruits ye shall know them.

3 Nephi 14:21
 21 Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter
into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my
Father who is in heaven.

3 Nephi 14:22
 22 Many will say to me in that day: Lord, Lord, have we not
prophesied in thy name, and in thy name have cast out devils, and
in thy name done many wonderful works?

3 Nephi 14:23
 23 And then will I profess unto them: I never knew you; depart
from me, ye that work iniquity.

3 Nephi 14:24
 24 Therefore, whoso heareth these sayings of mine and doeth
them, I will liken him unto a wise man, who built his house upon
a rock--

3 Nephi 14:25
 25 And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds
blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not, for it was
founded upon a rock.

3 Nephi 14:26
 26 And every one that heareth these sayings of mine and doeth
them not shall be likened unto a foolish man, who built his house
upon the sand--

3 Nephi 14:27
 27 And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds
blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell, and great was the
fall of it.

3 Nephi 15
Chapter 15

3 Nephi 15:1
 1 And now it came to pass that when Jesus had ended these
sayings he cast his eyes round about on the multitude, and said
unto them: Behold, ye have heard the things which I taught before
I ascended to my Father; therefore, whoso remembereth these
sayings of mine and doeth them, him will I raise up at the last
day.

3 Nephi 15:2
 2 And it came to pass that when Jesus had said these words he
perceived that there were some among them who marveled, and
wondered what he would concerning the law of Moses; for they
understood not the saying that old things had passed away, and
that all things had become new.

3 Nephi 15:3
 3 And he said unto them: Marvel not that I said unto you that
old things had passed away, and that all things had become new.

3 Nephi 15:4
 4 Behold, I say unto you that the law is fulfilled that was
given unto Moses.

3 Nephi 15:5
 5 Behold, I am he that gave the law, and I am he who covenanted
with my people Israel; therefore, the law in me is fulfilled, for
I have come to fulfil the law; therefore it hath an end.

3 Nephi 15:6
 6 Behold, I do not destroy the prophets, for as many as have not
been fulfilled in me, verily I say unto you, shall all be
fulfilled.

3 Nephi 15:7
 7 And because I said unto you that old things have passed away,
I do not destroy that which hath been spoken concerning things
which are to come.

3 Nephi 15:8
 8 For behold, the covenant which I have made with my people is
not all fulfilled; but the law which was given unto Moses hath an
end in me.

3 Nephi 15:9
 9 Behold, I am the law, and the light.  Look unto me, and endure
to the end, and ye shall live; for unto him that endureth to the
end will I give eternal life.

3 Nephi 15:10
 10 Behold, I have given unto you the commandments; therefore
keep my commandments.  And this is the law and the prophets, for
they truly testified of me.

3 Nephi 15:11
 11 And now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these
words, he said unto those twelve whom he had chosen:

3 Nephi 15:12
 12 Ye are my disciples; and ye are a light unto this people, who
are a remnant of the house of Joseph.

3 Nephi 15:13
 13 And behold, this is the land of your inheritance; and the
Father hath given it unto you.

3 Nephi 15:14
 14 And not at any time hath the Father given me commandment that
I should tell it unto your brethren at Jerusalem.

3 Nephi 15:15
 15 Neither at any time hath the Father given me commandment that
I should tell unto them concerning the other tribes of the house
of Israel, whom the Father hath led away out of the land.

3 Nephi 15:16
 16 This much did the Father command me, that I should tell unto
them:

3 Nephi 15:17
 17 That other sheep I have which are not of this fold; them also
I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be
one fold, and one shepherd.

3 Nephi 15:18
 18 And now, because of stiffneckedness and unbelief they
understood not my word; therefore I was commanded to say no more
of the Father concerning this thing unto them.

3 Nephi 15:19
 19 But, verily, I say unto you that the Father hath commanded
me, and I tell it unto you, that ye were separated from among
them because of their iniquity; therefore it is because of their
iniquity that they know not of you.

3 Nephi 15:20
 20 And verily, I say unto you again that the other tribes hath
the Father separated from them; and it is because of their
iniquity that they know not of them.

3 Nephi 15:21
 21 And verily I say unto you, that ye are they of whom I said:
Other sheep I have which are not of this fold; them also I must
bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold,
and one shepherd.

3 Nephi 15:22
 22 And they understood me not, for they supposed it had been the
Gentiles; for they understood not that the Gentiles should be
converted through their preaching.

3 Nephi 15:23
 23 And they understood me not that I said they shall hear my
voice; and they understood me not that the Gentiles should not at
any time hear my voice--that I should not manifest myself unto
them save it were by the Holy Ghost.

3 Nephi 15:24
 24 But behold, ye have both heard my voice, and seen me; and ye
are my sheep, and ye are numbered among those whom the Father
hath given me.

3 Nephi 16
Chapter 16

3 Nephi 16:1
 1 And verily, verily, I say unto you that I have other sheep
which are not of this land, neither of the land of Jerusalem,
neither in any parts of that land round about whither I have been
to minister.

3 Nephi 16:2
 2 For they of whom I speak are they who have not as yet heard my
voice; neither have I at any time manifested myself unto them.

3 Nephi 16:3
 3 But I have received a commandment of the Father that I shall
go unto them, and that they shall hear my voice, and shall be
numbered among my sheep, that there may be one fold and one
shepherd; therefore I go to show myself unto them.

3 Nephi 16:4
 4 And I command you that ye shall write these sayings after I am
gone, that if it so be that my people at Jerusalem, they who have
seen me and been with me in my ministry, do not ask the Father in
my name, that they may receive a knowledge of you by the Holy
Ghost, and also of the other tribes whom they know not of, that
these sayings which ye shall write shall be kept and shall be
manifested unto the Gentiles, that through the fulness of the
Gentiles, the remnant of their seed, who shall be scattered forth
upon the face of the earth because of their unbelief, may be
brought in, or may be brought to a knowledge of me, their
Redeemer.

3 Nephi 16:5
 5 And then will I gather them in from the four quarters of the
earth; and then will I fulfill the covenant which the Father hath
made unto all the people of the house of Israel.

3 Nephi 16:6
 6 And blessed are the Gentiles, because of their belief in me,
in and of the Holy Ghost, which witnesses unto them of me and of
the Father.

3 Nephi 16:7
 7 Behold, because of their belief in me, saith the Father, and
because of the unbelief of you, O house of Israel, in the latter
day shall the truth come unto the Gentiles, that the fulness of
these things shall be made known unto them.

3 Nephi 16:8
 8 But wo, saith the Father, unto the unbelieving of the
Gentiles--for notwithstanding they have come forth upon the face
of this land, and have scattered my people who are of the house
of Israel; and my people who are of the house of Israel have been
cast out from among them, and have been trodden under feet by
them;

3 Nephi 16:9
 9 And because of the mercies of the Father unto the Gentiles,
and also the judgments of the Father upon my people who are of
the house of Israel, verily, verily, I say unto you, that after
all this, and I have caused my people who are of the house of
Israel to be smitten, and to be afflicted, and to be slain, and
to be cast out from among them, and to become hated by them, and
to become a hiss and a byword among them--

3 Nephi 16:10
 10 And thus commandeth the Father that I should say unto you: At
that day when the Gentiles shall sin against my gospel, and shall
reject the fulness of my gospel, and shall be lifted up in the
pride of their hearts above all nations, and above all the people
of the whole earth, and shall be filled with all manner of
lyings, and of deceits, and of mischiefs, and all manner of
hypocrisy, and murders, and priestcrafts, and whoredoms, and of
secret abominations; and if they shall do all those things, and
shall reject the fulness of my gospel, behold, saith the Father,
I will bring the fulness of my gospel from among them.

3 Nephi 16:11
 11 And then will I remember my covenant which I have made unto
my people, O house of Israel, and I will bring my gospel unto
them.

3 Nephi 16:12
 12 And I will show unto thee, O house of Israel, that the
Gentiles shall not have power over you; but I will remember my
covenant unto you, O house of Israel, and ye shall come unto the
knowledge of the fulness of my gospel.

3 Nephi 16:13
 13 But if the Gentiles will repent and return unto me, saith the
Father, behold they shall be numbered among my people, O house of
Israel.

3 Nephi 16:14
 14 And I will not suffer my people, who are of the house of
Israel, to go through among them, and tread them down, saith the
Father.

3 Nephi 16:15
 15 But if they will not turn unto me, and hearken unto my voice,
I will suffer them, yea, I will suffer my people, O house of
Israel, that they shall go through among them, and shall tread
them down, and they shall be as salt that hath lost its savor,
which is thenceforth good for nothing but to be cast out, and to
be trodden under foot of my people, O house of Israel.

3 Nephi 16:16
 16 Verily, verily, I say unto you, thus hath the Father
commanded me--that I should give unto this people this land for
their inheritance.

3 Nephi 16:17
 17 And then the words of the prophet Isaiah shall be fulfilled,
which say:

3 Nephi 16:18
 18 Thy watchmen shall lift up the voice; with the voice together
shall they sing, for they shall see eye to eye when the Lord
shall bring again Zion.

3 Nephi 16:19
 19 Break forth into joy, sing together, ye waste places of
Jerusalem; for the Lord hath comforted his people, he hath
redeemed Jerusalem.

3 Nephi 16:20
 20 The Lord hath made bare his holy arm in the eye of all the
nations; and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of
God.

3 Nephi 17
Chapter 17

3 Nephi 17:1
 1 Behold, now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these
words he looked round about again on the multitude, and he said
unto them: Behold, my time is at hand.

3 Nephi 17:2
 2 I perceive that ye are weak, that ye cannot understand all my
words which I am commanded of the Father to speak unto you at
this time.

3 Nephi 17:3
 3 Therefore, go ye unto your homes, and ponder upon the things
which I have said, and ask of the Father, in my name, that ye may
understand, and prepare your minds for the morrow, and I come
unto you again.

3 Nephi 17:4
 4 But now I go unto the Father, and also to show myself unto the
lost tribes of Israel, for they are not lost unto the Father, for
he knoweth whither he hath taken them.

3 Nephi 17:5
 5 And it came to pass that when Jesus had thus spoken, he cast
his eyes round about again on the multitude, and beheld they were
in tears, and did look steadfastly upon him as if they would ask
him to tarry a little longer with them.

3 Nephi 17:6
 6 And he said unto them: Behold, my bowels are filled with
compassion towards you.

3 Nephi 17:7
 7 Have ye any that are sick among you?  Bring them hither.  Have
ye any that are lame, or blind, or halt, or maimed, or leprous,
or that are withered, or that are deaf, or that are afflicted in
any manner?  Bring them hither and I will heal them, for I have
compassion upon you; my bowels are filled with mercy.

3 Nephi 17:8
 8 For I perceive that ye desire that I should show unto you what
I have done unto your brethren at Jerusalem, for I see that your
faith is sufficient that I should heal you.

3 Nephi 17:9
 9 And it came to pass that when he had thus spoken, all the
multitude, with one accord, did go forth with their sick and
their afflicted, and their lame, and with their blind, and with
their dumb, and with all them that were afflicted in any manner;
and he did heal them every one as they were brought forth unto
him.

3 Nephi 17:10
 10 And they did all, both they who had been healed and they who
were whole, bow down at his feet, and did worship him; and as
many as could come for the multitude did kiss his feet, insomuch
that they did bathe his feet with their tears.

3 Nephi 17:11
 11 And it came to pass that he commanded that their little
children should be brought.

3 Nephi 17:12
 12 So they brought their little children and set them down upon
the ground round about him, and Jesus stood in the midst; and the
multitude gave way till they had all been brought unto him.

3 Nephi 17:13
 13 And it came to pass that when they had all been brought, and
Jesus stood in the midst, he commanded the multitude that they
should kneel down upon the ground.

3 Nephi 17:14
 14 And it came to pass that when they had knelt upon the ground,
Jesus groaned within himself, and said: Father, I am troubled
because of the wickedness of the people of the house of Israel.

3 Nephi 17:15
 15 And when he had said these words, he himself also knelt upon
the earth; and behold he prayed unto the Father, and the things
which he prayed cannot be written, and the multitude did bear
record who heard him.

3 Nephi 17:16
 16 And after this manner do they bear record: The eye hath never
seen, neither hath the ear heard, before, so great and marvelous
things as we saw and heard Jesus speak unto the Father;

3 Nephi 17:17
 17 And no tongue can speak, neither can there be written by any
man, neither can the hearts of men conceive so great and
marvelous things as we both saw and heard Jesus speak; and no one
can conceive of the joy which filled our souls at the time we
heard him pray for us unto the Father.

3 Nephi 17:18
 18 And it came to pass that when Jesus had made an end of
praying unto the Father, he arose; but so great was the joy of
the multitude that they were overcome.

3 Nephi 17:19
 19 And it came to pass that Jesus spake unto them, and bade them
arise.

3 Nephi 17:20
 20 And they arose from the earth, and he said unto them: Blessed
are ye because of your faith.  And now behold, my joy is full.

3 Nephi 17:21
 21 And when he had said these words, he wept, and the multitude
bare record of it, and he took their little children, one by one,
and blessed them, and prayed unto the Father for them.

3 Nephi 17:22
 22 And when he had done this he wept again;

3 Nephi 17:23
 23 And he spake unto the multitude, and said unto them: Behold
your little ones.

3 Nephi 17:24
 24 And as they looked to behold they cast their eyes towards
heaven, and they saw the heavens open, and they saw angels
descending out of heaven as it were in the midst of fire; and
they came down and encircled those little ones about, and they
were encircled about with fire; and the angels did minister unto
them.

3 Nephi 17:25
 25 And the multitude did see and hear and bear record; and they
know that their record is true for they all of them did see and
hear, every man for himself; and they were in number about two
thousand and five hundred souls; and they did consist of men,
women, and children.

3 Nephi 18
Chapter 18

3 Nephi 18:1
 1 And it came to pass that Jesus commanded his disciples that
they should bring forth some bread and wine unto him.

3 Nephi 18:2
 2 And while they were gone for bread and wine, he commanded the
multitude that they should sit themselves down upon the earth.

3 Nephi 18:3
 3 And when the disciples had come with bread and wine, he took
of the bread and brake and blessed it; and he gave unto the
disciples and commanded that they should eat.

3 Nephi 18:4
 4 And when they had eaten and were filled, he commanded that
they should give unto the multitude.

3 Nephi 18:5
 5 And when the multitude had eaten and were filled, he said unto
the disciples: Behold there shall one be ordained among you, and
to him will I give power that he shall break bread and bless it
and give it unto the people of my church, unto all those who
shall believe and be baptized in my name.

3 Nephi 18:6
 6 And this shall ye always observe to do, even as I have done,
even as I have broken bread and blessed it and given it unto you.

3 Nephi 18:7
 7 And this shall ye do in remembrance of my body, which I have
shown unto you.  And it shall be a testimony unto the Father that
ye do always remember me.  And if ye do always remember me ye
shall have my Spirit to be with you.

3 Nephi 18:8
 8 And it came to pass that when he said these words, he
commanded his disciples that they should take of the wine of the
cup and drink of it, and that they should also give unto the
multitude that they might drink of it.

3 Nephi 18:9
 9 And it came to pass that they did so, and did drink of it and
were filled; and they gave unto the multitude, and they did
drink, and they were filled.

3 Nephi 18:10
 10 And when the disciples had done this, Jesus said unto them:
Blessed are ye for this thing which ye have done, for this is
fulfilling my commandments, and this doth witness unto the Father
that ye are willing to do that which I have commanded you.

3 Nephi 18:11
 11 And this shall ye always do to those who repent and are
baptized in my name; and ye shall do it in remembrance of my
blood, which I have shed for you, that ye may witness unto the
Father that ye do always remember me.  And if ye do always
remember me ye shall have my Spirit to be with you.

3 Nephi 18:12
 12 And I give unto you a commandment that ye shall do these
things.  And if ye shall always do these things blessed are ye,
for ye are built upon my rock.

3 Nephi 18:13
 13 But whoso among you shall do more or less than these are not
built upon my rock, but are built upon a sandy foundation; and
when the rain descends, and the floods come, and the winds blow,
and beat upon them, they shall fall, and the gates of hell are
ready open to receive them.

3 Nephi 18:14
 14 Therefore blessed are ye if ye shall keep my commandments,
which the Father hath commanded me that I should give unto you.

3 Nephi 18:15
 15 Verily, verily, I say unto you, ye must watch and pray
always, lest ye be tempted by the devil, and ye be led away
captive by him.

3 Nephi 18:16
 16 And as I have prayed among you even so shall ye pray in my
church, among my people who do repent and are baptized in my
name.  Behold I am the light; I have set an example for you.

3 Nephi 18:17
 17 And it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words
unto his disciples, he turned again unto the multitude and said
unto them:

3 Nephi 18:18
 18 Behold, verily, verily, I say unto you, ye must watch and
pray always lest ye enter into temptation; for Satan desireth to
have you, that he may sift you as wheat.

3 Nephi 18:19
 19 Therefore ye must always pray unto the Father in my name;

3 Nephi 18:20
 20 And whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, which is
right, believing that ye shall receive, behold it shall be given
unto you.

3 Nephi 18:21
 21 Pray in your families unto the Father, always in my name,
that your wives and your children may be blessed.

3 Nephi 18:22
 22 And behold, ye shall meet together oft; and ye shall not
forbid any man from coming unto you when ye shall meet together,
but suffer them that they may come unto you and forbid them not;

3 Nephi 18:23
 23 But ye shall pray for them, and shall not cast them out; and
if it so be that they come unto you oft ye shall pray for them
unto the Father, in my name.

3 Nephi 18:24
 24 Therefore, hold up your light that it may shine unto the
world.  Behold I am the light which ye shall hold up--that which
ye have seen me do.  Behold ye see that I have prayed unto the
Father, and ye all have witnessed.

3 Nephi 18:25
 25 And ye see that I have commanded that none of you should go
away, but rather have commanded that ye should come unto me, that
ye might feel and see; even so shall ye do unto the world; and
whosoever breaketh this commandment suffereth himself to be led
into temptation.

3 Nephi 18:26
 26 And now it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these
words, he turned his eyes again upon the disciples whom he had
chosen, and said unto them:

3 Nephi 18:27
 27 Behold verily, verily, I say unto you, I give unto you
another commandment, and then I must go unto my Father that I may
fulfil other commandments which he hath given me.

3 Nephi 18:28
 28 And now behold, this is the commandment which I give unto
you, that ye shall not suffer any one knowingly to partake of my
flesh and blood unworthily, when ye shall minister it;

3 Nephi 18:29
 29 For whoso eateth and drinketh my flesh and blood unworthily
eateth and drinketh damnation to his soul; therefore if ye know
that a man is unworthy to eat and drink of my flesh and blood ye
shall forbid him.

3 Nephi 18:30
 30 Nevertheless, ye shall not cast him out from among you, but
ye shall minister unto him and shall pray for him unto the
Father, in my name; and if it so be that he repenteth and is
baptized in my name, then shall ye receive him, and shall
minister unto him of my flesh and blood.

3 Nephi 18:31
 31 But if he repent not he shall not be numbered among my
people, that he may not destroy my people, for behold I know my
sheep, and they are numbered.

3 Nephi 18:32
 32 Nevertheless, ye shall not cast him out of your synagogues,
or your places of worship, for unto such shall ye continue to
minister; for ye know not but what they will return and repent,
and come unto me with full purpose of heart, and I shall heal
them; and ye shall be the means of bringing salvation unto them.

3 Nephi 18:33
 33 Therefore, keep these sayings which I have commanded you that
ye come not under condemnation; for wo unto him whom the Father
condemneth.

3 Nephi 18:34
 34 And I give you these commandments because of the disputations
which have been among you.  And blessed are ye if ye have no
disputations among you.

3 Nephi 18:35
 35 And now I go unto the Father, because it is expedient that I
should go unto the Father for your sakes.

3 Nephi 18:36
 36 And it came to pass that when Jesus had made an end of these
sayings, he touched with his hand the disciples whom he had
chosen, one by one, even until he had touched them all, and spake
unto them as he touched them.

3 Nephi 18:37
 37 And the multitude heard not the words which he spake,
therefore they did not bear record; but the disciples bare record
that he gave them power to give the Holy Ghost.  And I will show
unto you hereafter that this record is true.

3 Nephi 18:38
 38 And it came to pass that when Jesus had touched them all,
there came a cloud and overshadowed the multitude that they could
not see Jesus.

3 Nephi 18:39
 39 And while they were overshadowed he departed from them, and
ascended into heaven.  And the disciples saw and did bear record
that he ascended again into heaven.

3 Nephi 19
Chapter 19

3 Nephi 19:1
 1 And now it came to pass that when Jesus had ascended into
heaven, the multitude did disperse, and every man did take his
wife and his children and did return to his own home.

3 Nephi 19:2
 2 And it was noised abroad among the people immediately, before
it was yet dark, that the multitude had seen Jesus, and that he
had ministered unto them, and that he would also show himself on
the morrow unto the multitude.

3 Nephi 19:3
 3 Yea, and even all the night it was noised abroad concerning
Jesus; and insomuch did they send forth unto the people that
there were many, yea, an exceedingly great number, did labor
exceedingly all that night, that they might be on the morrow in
the place where Jesus should show himself unto the multitude.

3 Nephi 19:4
 4 And it came to pass that on the morrow, when the multitude was
gathered together, behold, Nephi and his brother whom he had
raised from the dead, whose name was Timothy, and also his son,
whose name was Jonas, and also Mathoni, and Mathonihah, his
brother, and Kumen, and Kumenonhi, and Jeremiah, and Shemnon, and
Jonas, and Zedekiah, and Isaiah--now these were the names of the
disciples whom Jesus had chosen--and it came to pass that they
went forth and stood in the midst of the multitude.

3 Nephi 19:5
 5 And behold, the multitude was so great that they did cause
that they should be separated into twelve bodies.

3 Nephi 19:6
 6 And the twelve did teach the multitude; and behold, they did
cause that the multitude should kneel down upon the face of the
earth, and should pray unto the Father in the name of Jesus.

3 Nephi 19:7
 7 And the disciples did pray unto the Father also in the name of
Jesus.  And it came to pass that they arose and ministered unto
the people.

3 Nephi 19:8
 8 And when they had ministered those same words which Jesus had
spoken--nothing varying from the words which Jesus had
spoken--behold, they knelt again and prayed to the Father in the
name of Jesus.

3 Nephi 19:9
 9 And they did pray for that which they most desired; and they
desired that the Holy Ghost should be given unto them.

3 Nephi 19:10
 10 And when they had thus prayed they went down unto the water's
edge, and the multitude followed them.

3 Nephi 19:11
 11 And it came to pass that Nephi went down into the water and
was baptized.

3 Nephi 19:12
 12 And he came up out of the water and began to baptize.  And he
baptized all those whom Jesus had chosen.

3 Nephi 19:13
 13 And it came to pass when they were all baptized and had come
up out of the water, the Holy Ghost did fall upon them, and they
were filled with the Holy Ghost and with fire.

3 Nephi 19:14
 14 And behold, they were encircled about as if it were by fire;
and it came down from heaven, and the multitude did witness it,
and did bear record; and angels did come down out of heaven and
did minister unto them.

3 Nephi 19:15
 15 And it came to pass that while the angels were ministering
unto the disciples, behold, Jesus came and stood in the midst and
ministered unto them.

3 Nephi 19:16
 16 And it came to pass that he spake unto the multitude, and
commanded them that they should kneel down again upon the earth,
and also that his disciples should kneel down upon the earth.

3 Nephi 19:17
 17 And it came to pass that when they had all knelt down upon
the earth, he commanded his disciples that they should pray.

3 Nephi 19:18
 18 And behold, they began to pray; and they did pray unto Jesus,
calling him their Lord and their God.

3 Nephi 19:19
 19 And it came to pass that Jesus departed out of the midst of
them, and went a little way off from them and bowed himself to
the earth, and he said:

3 Nephi 19:20
 20 Father, I thank thee that thou hast given the Holy Ghost unto
these whom I have chosen; and it is because of their belief in me
that I have chosen them out of the world.

3 Nephi 19:21
 21 Father, I pray thee that thou wilt give the Holy Ghost unto
all them that shall believe in their words.

3 Nephi 19:22
 22 Father, thou hast given them the Holy Ghost because they
believe in me; and thou seest that they believe in me because
thou hearest them, and they pray unto me; and they pray unto me
because I am with them.

3 Nephi 19:23
 23 And now Father, I pray unto thee for them, and also for all
those who shall believe on their words, that they may believe in
me, that I may be in them as thou, Father, art in me, that we may
be one.

3 Nephi 19:24
 24 And it came to pass that when Jesus had thus prayed unto the
Father, he came unto his disciples, and behold, they did still
continue, without ceasing, to pray unto him; and they did not
multiply many words, for it was given unto them what they should
pray, and they were filled with desire.

3 Nephi 19:25
 25 And it came to pass that Jesus blessed them as they did pray
unto him; and his countenance did smile upon them, and the light
of his countenance did shine upon them, and behold they were as
white as the countenance and also the garments of Jesus; and
behold the whiteness thereof did exceed all the whiteness, yea,
even there could be nothing upon earth so white as the whiteness
thereof.

3 Nephi 19:26
 26 And Jesus said unto them: Pray on; nevertheless they did not
cease to pray.

3 Nephi 19:27
 27 And he turned from them again, and went a little way off and
bowed himself to the earth; and he prayed again unto the Father,
saying:

3 Nephi 19:28
 28 Father, I thank thee that thou hast purified those whom I
have chosen, because of their faith, and I pray for them, and
also for them who shall believe on their words, that they may be
purified in me, through faith on their words, even as they are
purified in me.

3 Nephi 19:29
 29 Father, I pray not for the world, but for those whom thou
hast given me out of the world, because of their faith, that they
may be purified in me, that I may be in them as thou, Father, art
in me, that we may be one, that I may be glorified in them.

3 Nephi 19:30
 30 And when Jesus had spoken these words he came again unto his
disciples; and behold they did pray steadfastly, without ceasing,
unto him; and he did smile upon them again; and behold they were
white, even as Jesus.

3 Nephi 19:31
 31 And it came to pass that he went again a little way off and
prayed unto the Father;

3 Nephi 19:32
 32 And tongue cannot speak the words which he prayed, neither
can be written by man the words which he prayed.

3 Nephi 19:33
 33 And the multitude did hear and do bear record; and their
hearts were open and they did understand in their hearts the
words which he prayed.

3 Nephi 19:34
 34 Nevertheless, so great and marvelous were the words which he
prayed that they cannot be written, neither can they be uttered
by man.

3 Nephi 19:35
 35 And it came to pass that when Jesus had made an end of
praying he came again to the disciples, and said unto them: So
great faith have I never seen among all the Jews; wherefore I
could not show unto them so great miracles, because of their
unbelief.

3 Nephi 19:36
 36 Verily I say unto you, there are none of them that have seen
so great things as ye have seen; neither have they heard so great
things as ye have heard.

3 Nephi 20
Chapter 20

3 Nephi 20:1
 1 And it came to pass that he commanded the multitude that they
should cease to pray, and also his disciples.  And he commanded
them that they should not cease to pray in their hearts.

3 Nephi 20:2
 2 And he commanded them that they should arise and stand up upon
their feet.  And they arose up and stood upon their feet.

3 Nephi 20:3
 3 And it came to pass that he brake bread again and blessed it,
and gave to the disciples to eat.

3 Nephi 20:4
 4 And when they had eaten he commanded them that they should
break bread, and give unto the multitude.

3 Nephi 20:5
 5 And when they had given unto the multitude he also gave them
wine to drink, and commanded them that they should give unto the
multitude.

3 Nephi 20:6
 6 Now, there had been no bread, neither wine, brought by the
disciples, neither by the multitude;

3 Nephi 20:7
 7 But he truly gave unto them bread to eat, and also wine to
drink.

3 Nephi 20:8
 8 And he said unto them: He that eateth this bread eateth of my
body to his soul; and he that drinketh of this wine drinketh of
my blood to his soul; and his soul shall never hunger nor thirst,
but shall be filled.

3 Nephi 20:9
 9 Now, when the multitude had all eaten and drunk, behold, they
were filled with the Spirit; and they did cry out with one voice,
and gave glory to Jesus, whom they both saw and heard.

3 Nephi 20:10
 10 And it came to pass that when they had all given glory unto
Jesus, he said unto them: Behold now I finish the commandment
which the Father hath commanded me concerning this people, who
are a remnant of the house of Israel.

3 Nephi 20:11
 11 Ye remember that I spake unto you, and said that when the
words of Isaiah should be fulfilled--behold they are written, ye
have them before you, therefore search them--

3 Nephi 20:12
 12 And verily, verily, I say unto you, that when they shall be
fulfilled then is the fulfilling of the covenant which the Father
hath made unto his people, O house of Israel.

3 Nephi 20:13
 13 And then shall the remnants, which shall be scattered abroad
upon the face of the earth, be gathered in from the east and from
the west, and from the south and from the north; and they shall
be brought to the knowledge of the Lord their God, who hath
redeemed them.

3 Nephi 20:14
 14 And the Father hath commanded me that I should give unto you
this land, for your inheritance.

3 Nephi 20:15
 15 And I say unto you, that if the Gentiles do not repent after
the blessing which they shall receive, after they have scattered
my people--

3 Nephi 20:16
 16 Then shall ye, who are a remnant of the house of Jacob, go
forth among them; and ye shall be in the midst of them who shall
be many; and ye shall be among them as a lion among the beasts of
the forest, and as a young lion among the flocks of sheep, who,
if he goeth through both treadeth down and teareth in pieces, and
none can deliver.

3 Nephi 20:17
 17 Thy hand shall be lifted up upon thine adversaries, and all
thine enemies shall be cut off.

3 Nephi 20:18
 18 And I will gather my people together as a man gathereth his
sheaves into the floor.

3 Nephi 20:19
 19 For I will make my people with whom the Father hath
covenanted, yea, I will make thy horn iron, and I will make thy
hoofs brass.  And thou shalt beat in pieces many people; and I
will consecrate their gain unto the Lord, and their substance
unto the Lord of the whole earth.  And behold, I am he who doeth
it.

3 Nephi 20:20
 20 And it shall come to pass, saith the Father, that the sword
of my justice shall hang over them at that day; and except they
repent it shall fall upon them, saith the Father, yea, even upon
all the nations of the Gentiles.

3 Nephi 20:21
 21 And it shall come to pass that I will establish my people, O
house of Israel.

3 Nephi 20:22
 22 And behold, this people will I establish in this land, unto
the fulfilling of the covenant which I made with your father
Jacob; and it shall be a New Jerusalem.  And the powers of heaven
shall be in the midst of this people; yea, even I will be in the
midst of you.

3 Nephi 20:23
 23 Behold, I am he of whom Moses spake, saying: A prophet shall
the Lord your God raise up unto you of your brethren, like unto
me; him shall ye hear in all things whatsoever he shall say unto
you.  And it shall come to pass that every soul who will not hear
that prophet shall be cut off from among the people.

3 Nephi 20:24
 24 Verily I say unto you, yea, and all the prophets from Samuel
and those that follow after, as many as have spoken, have
testified of me.

3 Nephi 20:25
 25 And behold, ye are the children of the prophets; and ye are
of the house of Israel; and ye are of the covenant which the
Father made with your fathers, saying unto Abraham: And in thy
seed shall all the kindreds of the earth be blessed.

3 Nephi 20:26
 26 The Father having raised me up unto you first, and sent me to
bless you in turning away every one of you from his iniquities;
and this because ye are the children of the covenant--

3 Nephi 20:27
 27 And after that ye were blessed then fulfilleth the Father the
covenant which he made with Abraham, saying: In thy seed shall
all the kindreds of the earth be blessed--unto the pouring out of
the Holy Ghost through me upon the Gentiles, which blessing upon
the Gentiles shall make them mighty above all, unto the
scattering of my people, O house of Israel.

3 Nephi 20:28
 28 And they shall be a scourge unto the people of this land. 
Nevertheless, when they shall have received the fulness of my
gospel, then if they shall harden their hearts against me I will
return their iniquities upon their own heads, saith the Father.

3 Nephi 20:29
 29 And I will remember the covenant which I have made with my
people; and I have covenanted with them that I would gather them
together in mine own due time, that I would give unto them again
the land of their fathers for their inheritance, which is the
land of Jerusalem, which is the promised land unto them forever,
saith the Father.

3 Nephi 20:30
 30 And it shall come to pass that the time cometh, when the
fulness of my gospel shall be preached unto them;

3 Nephi 20:31
 31 And they shall believe in me, that I am Jesus Christ, the Son
of God, and shall pray unto the Father in my name.

3 Nephi 20:32
 32 Then shall their watchmen lift up their voice, and with the
voice together shall they sing; for they shall see eye to eye.

3 Nephi 20:33
 33 Then will the Father gather them together again, and give
unto them Jerusalem for the land of their inheritance.

3 Nephi 20:34
 34 Then shall they break forth into joy--Sing together, ye waste
places of Jerusalem; for the Father hath comforted his people, he
hath redeemed Jerusalem.

3 Nephi 20:35
 35 The Father hath made bare his holy arm in the eyes of all the
nations; and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of
the Father; and the Father and I are one.

3 Nephi 20:36
 36 And then shall be brought to pass that which is written:
Awake, awake again, and put on thy strength, O Zion; put on thy
beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city, for henceforth
there shall no more come into thee the uncircumcised and the
unclean.

3 Nephi 20:37
 37 Shake thyself from the dust; arise, sit down, O Jerusalem;
loose thyself from the bands of thy neck, O captive daughter of
Zion.

3 Nephi 20:38
 38 For thus saith the Lord: Ye have sold yourselves for naught,
and ye shall be redeemed without money.

3 Nephi 20:39
 39 Verily, verily, I say unto you, that my people shall know my
name; yea, in that day they shall know that I am he that doth
speak.

3 Nephi 20:40
 40 And then shall they say: How beautiful upon the mountains are
the feet of him that bringeth good tidings unto them, that
publisheth peace; that bringeth good tidings unto them of good,
that publisheth salvation; that saith unto Zion: Thy God
reigneth!

3 Nephi 20:41
 41 And then shall a cry go forth: Depart ye, depart ye, go ye
out from thence, touch not that which is unclean; go ye out of
the midst of her; be ye clean that bear the vessels of the Lord.

3 Nephi 20:42
 42 For ye shall not go out with haste nor go by flight; for the
Lord will go before you, and the God of Israel shall be your
rearward.

3 Nephi 20:43
 43 Behold, my servant shall deal prudently; he shall be exalted
and extolled and be very high.

3 Nephi 20:44
 44 As many were astonished at thee--his visage was so marred,
more than any man, and his form more than the sons of men--

3 Nephi 20:45
 45 So shall he sprinkle many nations; the kings shall shut their
mouths at him, for that which had not been told them shall they
see; and that which they had not heard shall they consider.

3 Nephi 20:46
 46 Verily, verily, I say unto you, all these things shall surely
come, even as the Father hath commanded me.  Then shall this
covenant which the Father hath covenanted with his people be
fulfilled; and then shall Jerusalem be inhabited again with my
people, and it shall be the land of their inheritance.

3 Nephi 21
Chapter 21

3 Nephi 21:1
 1 And verily I say unto you, I give unto you a sign, that ye may
know the time when these things shall be about to take
place--that I shall gather in, from their long dispersion, my
people, O house of Israel, and shall establish again among them
my Zion;

3 Nephi 21:2
 2 And behold, this is the thing which I will give unto you for a
sign--for verily I say unto you that when these things which I
declare unto you, and which I shall declare unto you hereafter of
myself, and by the power of the Holy Ghost which shall be given
unto you of the Father, shall be made known unto the Gentiles
that they may know concerning this people who are a remnant of
the house of Jacob, and concerning this my people who shall be
scattered by them;

3 Nephi 21:3
 3 Verily, verily, I say unto you, when these things shall be
made known unto them of the Father, and shall come forth of the
Father, from them unto you;

3 Nephi 21:4
 4 For it is wisdom in the Father that they should be established
in this land, and be set up as a free people by the power of the
Father, that these things might come forth from them unto a
remnant of your seed, that the covenant of the Father may be
fulfilled which he hath covenanted with his people, O house of
Israel;

3 Nephi 21:5
 5 Therefore, when these works and the works which shall be
wrought among you hereafter shall come forth from the Gentiles,
unto your seed which shall dwindle in unbelief because of
iniquity;

3 Nephi 21:6
 6 For thus it behooveth the Father that it should come forth
from the Gentiles, that he may show forth his power unto the
Gentiles, for this cause that the Gentiles, if they will not
harden their hearts, that they may repent and come unto me and be
baptized in my name and know of the true points of my doctrine,
that they may be numbered among my people, O house of Israel;

3 Nephi 21:7
 7 And when these things come to pass that thy seed shall begin
to know these things--it shall be a sign unto them, that they may
know that the work of the Father hath already commenced unto the
fulfilling of the covenant which he hath made unto the people who
are of the house of Israel.

3 Nephi 21:8
 8 And when that day shall come, it shall come to pass that kings
shall shut their mouths; for that which had not been told them
shall they see; and that which they had not heard shall they
consider.

3 Nephi 21:9
 9 For in that day, for my sake shall the Father work a work,
which shall be a great and a marvelous work among them; and there
shall be among them those who will not believe it, although a man
shall declare it unto them.

3 Nephi 21:10
 10 But behold, the life of my servant shall be in my hand;
therefore they shall not hurt him, although he shall be marred
because of them.  Yet I will heal him, for I will show unto them
that my wisdom is greater than the cunning of the devil.

3 Nephi 21:11
 11 Therefore it shall come to pass that whosoever will not
believe in my words, who am Jesus Christ, which the Father shall
cause him to bring forth unto the Gentiles, and shall give unto
him power that he shall bring them forth unto the Gentiles, (it
shall be done even as Moses said) they shall be cut off from
among my people who are of the covenant.

3 Nephi 21:12
 12 And my people who are a remnant of Jacob shall be among the
Gentiles, yea, in the midst of them as a lion among the beasts of
the forest, as a young lion among the flocks of sheep, who, if he
go through both treadeth down and teareth in pieces, and none can
deliver.

3 Nephi 21:13
 13 Their hand shall be lifted up upon their adversaries, and all
their enemies shall be cut off.

3 Nephi 21:14
 14 Yea, wo be unto the Gentiles except they repent; for it shall
come to pass in that day, saith the Father, that I will cut off
thy horses out of the midst of thee, and I will destroy thy
chariots;

3 Nephi 21:15
 15 And I will cut off the cities of thy land, and throw down all
thy strongholds;

3 Nephi 21:16
 16 And I will cut off witchcrafts out of thy land, and thou
shalt have no more soothsayers;

3 Nephi 21:17
 17 Thy graven images I will also cut off, and thy standing
images out of the midst of thee, and thou shalt no more worship
the works of thy hands;

3 Nephi 21:18
 18 And I will pluck up thy groves out of the midst of thee; so
will I destroy thy cities.

3 Nephi 21:19
 19 And it shall come to pass that all lyings, and deceivings,
and envyings, and strifes, and priestcrafts, and whoredoms, shall
be done away.

3 Nephi 21:20
 20 For it shall come to pass, saith the Father, that at that day
whosoever will not repent and come unto my Beloved Son, them will
I cut off from among my people, O house of Israel;

3 Nephi 21:21
 21 And I will execute vengeance and fury upon them, even as upon
the heathen, such as they have not heard.

3 Nephi 21:22
 22 But if they will repent and hearken unto my words, and harden
not their hearts, I will establish my church among them, and they
shall come in unto the covenant and be numbered among this the
remnant of Jacob, unto whom I have given this land for their
inheritance;

3 Nephi 21:23
 23 And they shall assist my people, the remnant of Jacob, and
also as many of the house of Israel as shall come, that they may
build a city, which shall be called the New Jerusalem.

3 Nephi 21:24
 24 And then shall they assist my people that they may be
gathered in, who are scattered upon all the face of the land, in
unto the New Jerusalem.

3 Nephi 21:25
 25 And then shall the power of heaven come down among them; and
I also will be in the midst.

3 Nephi 21:26
 26 And then shall the work of the Father commence at that day,
even when this gospel shall be preached among the remnant of this
people.  Verily I say unto you, at that day shall the work of the
Father commence among all the dispersed of my people, yea, even
the tribes which have been lost, which the Father hath led away
out of Jerusalem.

3 Nephi 21:27
 27 Yea, the work shall commence among all the dispersed of my
people, with the Father to prepare the way whereby they may come
unto me, that they may call on the Father in my name.

3 Nephi 21:28
 28 Yea, and then shall the work commence, with the Father among
all nations in preparing the way whereby his people may be
gathered home to the land of their inheritance.

3 Nephi 21:29
 29 And they shall go out from all nations; and they shall not go
out in haste, nor go by flight, for I will go before them, saith
the Father, and I will be their rearward.

3 Nephi 22
Chapter 22

3 Nephi 22:1
 1 And then shall that which is written come to pass: Sing, O
barren, thou that didst not bear; break forth into singing, and
cry aloud, thou that didst not travail with child; for more are
the children of the desolate than the children of the married
wife, saith the Lord.

3 Nephi 22:2
 2 Enlarge the place of thy tent, and let them stretch forth the
curtains of thy habitations; spare not, lengthen thy cords and
strengthen thy stakes;

3 Nephi 22:3
 3 For thou shalt break forth on the right hand and on the left,
and thy seed shall inherit the Gentiles and make the desolate
cities to be inhabited.

3 Nephi 22:4
 4 Fear not, for thou shalt not be ashamed; neither be thou
confounded, for thou shalt not be put to shame; for thou shalt
forget the shame of thy youth, and shalt not remember the
reproach of thy youth, and shalt not remember the reproach of thy
widowhood any more.

3 Nephi 22:5
 5 For thy maker, thy husband, the Lord of Hosts is his name; and
thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel--the God of the whole earth
shall he be called.

3 Nephi 22:6
 6 For the Lord hath called thee as a woman forsaken and grieved
in spirit, and a wife of youth, when thou wast refused, saith thy
God.

3 Nephi 22:7
 7 For a small moment have I forsaken thee, but with great
mercies will I gather thee.

3 Nephi 22:8
 8 In a little wrath I hid my face from thee for a moment, but
with everlasting kindness will I have mercy on thee, saith the
Lord thy Redeemer.

3 Nephi 22:9
 9 For this, the waters of Noah unto me, for as I have sworn that
the waters of Noah should no more go over the earth, so have I
sworn that I would not be wroth with thee.

3 Nephi 22:10
 10 For the mountains shall depart and the hills be removed, but
my kindness shall not depart from thee, neither shall the
covenant of my peace be removed, saith the Lord that hath mercy
on thee.

3 Nephi 22:11
 11 O thou afflicted, tossed with tempest, and not comforted! 
Behold, I will lay thy stones with fair colors, and lay thy
foundations with sapphires.

3 Nephi 22:12
 12 And I will make thy windows of agates, and thy gates of
carbuncles, and all thy borders of pleasant stones.

3 Nephi 22:13
 13 And all thy children shall be taught of the Lord; and great
shall be the peace of thy children.

3 Nephi 22:14
 14 In righteousness shalt thou be established; thou shalt be far
from oppression for thou shalt not fear, and from terror for it
shall not come near thee.

3 Nephi 22:15
 15 Behold, they shall surely gather together against thee, not
by me; whosoever shall gather together against thee shall fall
for thy sake.

3 Nephi 22:16
 16 Behold, I have created the smith that bloweth the coals in
the fire, and that bringeth forth an instrument for his work; and
I have created the waster to destroy.

3 Nephi 22:17
 17 No weapon that is formed against thee shall prosper; and
every tongue that shall revile against thee in judgment thou
shalt condemn.  This is the heritage of the servants of the Lord,
and their righteousness is of me, saith the Lord.

3 Nephi 23
Chapter 23

3 Nephi 23:1
 1 And now, behold, I say unto you, that ye ought to search these
things.  Yea, a commandment I give unto you that ye search these
things diligently; for great are the words of Isaiah.

3 Nephi 23:2
 2 For surely he spake as touching all things concerning my
people which are of the house of Israel; therefore it must needs
be that he must speak also to the Gentiles.

3 Nephi 23:3
 3 And all things that he spake have been and shall be, even
according to the words which he spake.

3 Nephi 23:4
 4 Therefore give heed to my words; write the things which I have
told you; and according to the time and the will of the Father
they shall go forth unto the Gentiles.

3 Nephi 23:5
 5 And whosoever will hearken unto my words and repenteth and is
baptized, the same shall be saved.  Search the prophets, for many
there be that testify of these things.

3 Nephi 23:6
 6 And now it came to pass that when Jesus had said these words
he said unto them again, after he had expounded all the
scriptures unto them which they had received, he said unto them:
Behold, other scriptures I would that ye should write, that ye
have not.

3 Nephi 23:7
 7 And it came to pass that he said unto Nephi: Bring forth the
record which ye have kept.

3 Nephi 23:8
 8 And when Nephi had brought forth the records, and laid them
before him, he cast his eyes upon them and said:

3 Nephi 23:9
 9 Verily I say unto you, I commanded my servant Samuel, the
Lamanite, that he should testify unto this people, that at the
day that the Father should glorify his name in me that there were
many saints who should arise from the dead, and should appear
unto many, and should minister unto them.  And he said unto them:
Was it not so?

3 Nephi 23:10
 10 And his disciples answered him and said: Yea, Lord, Samuel
did prophesy according to thy words, and they were all fulfilled.

3 Nephi 23:11
 11 And Jesus said unto them: How be it that ye have not written
this thing, that many saints did arise and appear unto many and
did minister unto them?

3 Nephi 23:12
 12 And it came to pass that Nephi remembered that this thing had
not been written.

3 Nephi 23:13
 13 And it came to pass that Jesus commanded that it should be
written; therefore it was written according as he commanded.

3 Nephi 23:14
 14 And now it came to pass that when Jesus had expounded all the
scriptures in one, which they had written, he commanded them that
they should teach the things which he had expounded unto them.

3 Nephi 24
Chapter 24

3 Nephi 24:1
 1 And it came to pass that he commanded them that they should
write the words which the Father had given unto Malachi, which he
should tell unto them.  And it came to pass that after they were
written he expounded them.  And these are the words which he did
tell unto them, saying: Thus said the Father unto
Malachi--Behold, I will send my messenger, and he shall prepare
the way before me, and the Lord whom ye seek shall suddenly come
to his temple, even the messenger of the covenant, whom ye
delight in; behold, he shall come, saith the Lord of Hosts.

3 Nephi 24:2
 2 But who may abide the day of his coming, and who shall stand
when he appeareth?  For he is like a refiner's fire, and like
fuller's soap.

3 Nephi 24:3
 3 And he shall sit as a refiner and purifier of silver; and he
shall purify the sons of Levi, and purge them as gold and silver,
that they may offer unto the Lord an offering in righteousness.

3 Nephi 24:4
 4 Then shall the offering of Judah and Jerusalem be pleasant
unto the Lord, as in the days of old, and as in former years.

3 Nephi 24:5
 5 And I will come near to you to judgment; and I will be a swift
witness against the sorcerers, and against the adulterers, and
against false swearers, and against those that oppress the
hireling in his wages, the widow and the fatherless, and that
turn aside the stranger, and fear not me, saith the Lord of
Hosts.

3 Nephi 24:6
 6 For I am the Lord, I change not; therefore ye sons of Jacob
are not consumed.

3 Nephi 24:7
 7 Even from the days of your fathers ye are gone away from mine
ordinances, and have not kept them.  Return unto me and I will
return unto you, saith the Lord of Hosts.  But ye say: Wherein
shall we return?

3 Nephi 24:8
 8 Will a man rob God?  Yet ye have robbed me.  But ye say:
Wherein have we robbed thee?  In tithes and offerings.

3 Nephi 24:9
 9 Ye are cursed with a curse, for ye have robbed me, even this
whole nation.

3 Nephi 24:10
 10 Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may
be meat in my house; and prove me now herewith, saith the Lord of
Hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you
out a blessing that there shall not be room enough to receive it.

3 Nephi 24:11
 11 And I will rebuke the devourer for your sakes, and he shall
not destroy the fruits of your ground; neither shall your vine
cast her fruit before the time in the fields, saith the Lord of
Hosts.

3 Nephi 24:12
 12 And all nations shall call you blessed, for ye shall be a
delightsome land, saith the Lord of Hosts.

3 Nephi 24:13
 13 Your words have been stout against me, saith the Lord.  Yet
ye say: What have we spoken against thee?

3 Nephi 24:14
 14 Ye have said: It is vain to serve God, and what doth it
profit that we have kept his ordinances and that we have walked
mournfully before the Lord of Hosts?

3 Nephi 24:15
 15 And now we call the proud happy; yea, they that work
wickedness are set up; yea, they that tempt God are even
delivered.

3 Nephi 24:16
 16 Then they that feared the Lord spake often one to another,
and the Lord hearkened and heard; and a book of remembrance was
written before him for them that feared the Lord, and that
thought upon his name.

3 Nephi 24:17
 17 And they shall be mine, saith the Lord of Hosts, in that day
when I make up my jewels; and I will spare them as a man spareth
his own son that serveth him.

3 Nephi 24:18
 18 Then shall ye return and discern between the righteous and
the wicked, between him that serveth God and him that serveth him
not.

3 Nephi 25
Chapter 25

3 Nephi 25:1
 1 For behold, the day cometh that shall burn as an oven; and all
the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly, shall be stubble; and
the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the Lord of Hosts,
that it shall leave them neither root nor branch.

3 Nephi 25:2
 2 But unto you that fear my name, shall the Son of Righteousness
arise with healing in his wings; and ye shall go forth and grow
up as calves in the stall.

3 Nephi 25:3
 3 And ye shall tread down the wicked; for they shall be ashes
under the soles of your feet in the day that I shall do this,
saith the Lord of Hosts.

3 Nephi 25:4
 4 Remember ye the law of Moses, my servant, which I commanded
unto him in Horeb for all Israel, with the statutes and
judgments.

3 Nephi 25:5
 5 Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming
of the great and dreadful day of the Lord;

3 Nephi 25:6
 6 And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children,
and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and
smite the earth with a curse.

3 Nephi 26
Chapter 26

3 Nephi 26:1
 1 And now it came to pass that when Jesus had told these things
he expounded them unto the multitude; and he did expound all
things unto them, both great and small.

3 Nephi 26:2
 2 And he saith: These scriptures, which ye had not with you, the
Father commanded that I should give unto you; for it was wisdom
in him that they should be given unto future generations.

3 Nephi 26:3
 3 And he did expound all things, even from the beginning until
the time that he should come in his glory--yea, even all things
which should come upon the face of the earth, even until the
elements should melt with fervent heat, and the earth should be
wrapt together as a scroll, and the heavens and the earth should
pass away;

3 Nephi 26:4
 4 And even unto the great and last day, when all people, and all
kindreds, and all nations and tongues shall stand before God, to
be judged of their works, whether they be good or whether they be
evil--

3 Nephi 26:5
 5 If they be good, to the resurrection of everlasting life; and
if they be evil, to the resurrection of damnation; being on a
parallel, the one on the one hand and the other on the other
hand, according to the mercy, and the justice, and the holiness
which is in Christ, who was before the world began.

3 Nephi 26:6
 6 And now there cannot be written in this book even a hundredth
part of the things which Jesus did truly teach unto the people;

3 Nephi 26:7
 7 But behold the plates of Nephi do contain the more part of the
things which he taught the people.

3 Nephi 26:8
 8 And these things have I written, which are a lesser part of
the things which he taught the people; and I have written them to
the intent that they may be brought again unto this people, from
the Gentiles, according to the words which Jesus hath spoken.

3 Nephi 26:9
 9 And when they shall have received this, which is expedient
that they should have first, to try their faith, and if it shall
so be that they shall believe these things then shall the greater
things be made manifest unto them.

3 Nephi 26:10
 10 And if it so be that they will not believe these things, then
shall the greater things be withheld from them, unto their
condemnation.

3 Nephi 26:11
 11 Behold, I was about to write them, all which were engraven
upon the plates of Nephi, but the Lord forbade it, saying: I will
try the faith of my people.

3 Nephi 26:12
 12 Therefore I, Mormon, do write the things which have been
commanded me of the Lord.  And now I, Mormon, make an end of my
sayings, and proceed to write the things which have been
commanded me.

3 Nephi 26:13
 13 Therefore, I would that ye should behold that the Lord truly
did teach the people, for the space of three days; and after that
he did show himself unto them oft, and did break bread oft, and
bless it, and give it unto them.

3 Nephi 26:14
 14 And it came to pass that he did teach and minister unto the
children of the multitude of whom hath been spoken, and he did
loose their tongues, and they did speak unto their fathers great
and marvelous things, even greater than he had revealed unto the
people; and he loosed their tongues that they could utter.

3 Nephi 26:15
 15 And it came to pass that after he had ascended into
heaven--the second time that he showed himself unto them, and had
gone unto the Father, after having healed all their sick, and
their lame, and opened the eyes of their blind and unstopped the
ears of the deaf, and even had done all manner of cures among
them, and raised a man from the dead, and had shown forth his
power unto them, and had ascended unto the Father--

3 Nephi 26:16
 16 Behold, it came to pass on the morrow that the multitude
gathered themselves together, and they both saw and heard these
children; yea, even babes did open their mouths and utter
marvelous things; and the things which they did utter were
forbidden that there should not any man write them.

3 Nephi 26:17
 17 And it came to pass that the disciples whom Jesus had chosen
began from that time forth to baptize and to teach as many as did
come unto them; and as many as were baptized in the name of Jesus
were filled with the Holy Ghost.

3 Nephi 26:18
 18 And many of them saw and heard unspeakable things, which are
not lawful to be written.

3 Nephi 26:19
 19 And they taught, and did minister one to another; and they
had all things common among them, every man dealing justly, one
with another.

3 Nephi 26:20
 20 And it came to pass that they did do all things even as Jesus
had commanded them.

3 Nephi 26:21
 21 And they who were baptized in the name of Jesus were called
the church of Christ.

3 Nephi 27
Chapter 27

3 Nephi 27:1
 1 And it came to pass that as the disciples of Jesus were
journeying and were preaching the things which they had both
heard and seen, and were baptizing in the name of Jesus, it came
to pass that the disciples were gathered together and were united
in mighty prayer and fasting.

3 Nephi 27:2
 2 And Jesus again showed himself unto them, for they were
praying unto the Father in his name; and Jesus came and stood in
the midst of them, and said unto them: What will ye that I shall
give unto you?

3 Nephi 27:3
 3 And they said unto him: Lord, we will that thou wouldst tell
us the name whereby we shall call this church; for there are
disputations among the people concerning this matter.

3 Nephi 27:4
 4 And the Lord said unto them: Verily, verily, I say unto you,
why is it that the people should murmur and dispute because of
this thing?

3 Nephi 27:5
 5 Have they not read the scriptures, which say ye must take upon
you the name of Christ, which is my name?  For by this name shall
ye be called at the last day;

3 Nephi 27:6
 6 And whoso taketh upon him my name, and endureth to the end,
the same shall be saved at the last day.

3 Nephi 27:7
 7 Therefore, whatsoever ye shall do, ye shall do it in my name;
therefore ye shall call the church in my name; and ye shall call
upon the Father in my name that he will bless the church for my
sake.

3 Nephi 27:8
 8 And how be it my church save it be called in my name?  For if
a church be called in Moses' name then it be Moses' church; or if
it be called in the name of a man then it be the church of a man;
but if it be called in my name then it is my church, if it so be
that they are built upon my gospel.

3 Nephi 27:9
 9 Verily I say unto you, that ye are built upon my gospel;
therefore ye shall call whatsoever things ye do call, in my name;
therefore if ye call upon the Father, for the church, if it be in
my name the Father will hear you;

3 Nephi 27:10
 10 And if it so be that the church is built upon my gospel then
will the Father show forth his own works in it.

3 Nephi 27:11
 11 But if it be not built upon my gospel, and is built upon the
works of men, or upon the works of the devil, verily I say unto
you they have joy in their works for a season, and by and by the
end cometh, and they are hewn down and cast into the fire, from
whence there is no return.

3 Nephi 27:12
 12 For their works do follow them, for it is because of their
works that they are hewn down; therefore remember the things that
I have told you.

3 Nephi 27:13
 13 Behold I have given unto you my gospel, and this is the
gospel which I have given unto you--that I came into the world to
do the will of my Father, because my Father sent me.

3 Nephi 27:14
 14 And my Father sent me that I might be lifted up upon the
cross; and after that I had been lifted up upon the cross, that I
might draw all men unto me, that as I have been lifted up by men
even so should men be lifted up by the Father, to stand before
me, to be judged of their works, whether they be good or whether
they be evil--

3 Nephi 27:15
 15 And for this cause have I been lifted up; therefore,
according to the power of the Father I will draw all men unto me,
that they may be judged according to their works.

3 Nephi 27:16
 16 And it shall come to pass, that whoso repenteth and is
baptized in my name shall be filled; and if he endureth to the
end, behold, him will I hold guiltless before my Father at that
day when I shall stand to judge the world.

3 Nephi 27:17
 17 And he that endureth not unto the end, the same is he that is
also hewn down and cast into the fire, from whence they can no
more return, because of the justice of the Father.

3 Nephi 27:18
 18 And this is the word which he hath given unto the children of
men.  And for this cause he fulfilleth the words which he hath
given, and he lieth not, but fulfilleth all his words.

3 Nephi 27:19
 19 And no unclean thing can enter into his kingdom; therefore
nothing entereth into his rest save it be those who have washed
their garments in my blood, because of their faith, and the
repentance of all their sins, and their faithfulness unto the
end.

3 Nephi 27:20
 20 Now this is the commandment: Repent, all ye ends of the
earth, and come unto me and be baptized in my name, that ye may
be sanctified by the reception of the Holy Ghost, that ye may
stand spotless before me at the last day.

3 Nephi 27:21
 21 Verily, verily, I say unto you, this is my gospel; and ye
know the things that ye must do in my church; for the works which
ye have seen me do that shall ye also do; for that which ye have
seen me do even that shall ye do;

3 Nephi 27:22
 22 Therefore, if ye do these things blessed are ye, for ye shall
be lifted up at the last day.

3 Nephi 27:23
 23 Write the things which ye have seen and heard, save it be
those which are forbidden.

3 Nephi 27:24
 24 Write the works of this people, which shall be, even as hath
been written, of that which hath been.

3 Nephi 27:25
 25 For behold, out of the books which have been written, and
which shall be written, shall this people be judged, for by them
shall their works be known unto men.

3 Nephi 27:26
 26 And behold, all things are written by the Father; therefore
out of the books which shall be written shall the world be
judged.

3 Nephi 27:27
 27 And know ye that ye shall be judges of this people, according
to the judgment which I shall give unto you, which shall be just.

Therefore, what manner of men ought ye to be?  Verily I say unto
you, even as I am.

3 Nephi 27:28
 28 And now I go unto the Father.  And verily I say unto you,
whatsoever things ye shall ask the Father in my name shall be
given unto you.

3 Nephi 27:29
 29 Therefore, ask, and ye shall receive; knock, and it shall be
opened unto you; for he that asketh, receiveth; and unto him that
knocketh, it shall be opened.

3 Nephi 27:30
 30 And now, behold, my joy is great, even unto fulness, because
of you, and also this generation; yea, and even the Father
rejoiceth, and also all the holy angels, because of you and this
generation; for none of them are lost.

3 Nephi 27:31
 31 Behold, I would that ye should understand; for I mean them
who are now alive of this generation; and none of them are lost;
and in them I have fulness of joy.

3 Nephi 27:32
 32 But behold, it sorroweth me because of the fourth generation
from this generation, for they are led away captive by him even
as was the son of perdition; for they will sell me for silver and
for gold, and for that which moth doth corrupt and which thieves
can break through and steal.  And in that day will I visit them,
even in turning their works upon their own heads.

3 Nephi 27:33
 33 And it came to pass that when Jesus had ended these sayings
he said unto his disciples: Enter ye in at the strait gate; for
strait is the gate, and narrow is the way that leads to life, and
few there be that find it; but wide is the gate, and broad the
way which leads to death, and many there be that travel therein,
until the night cometh, wherein no man can work.

3 Nephi 28
Chapter 28

3 Nephi 28:1
 1 And it came to pass when Jesus had said these words, he spake
unto his disciples, one by one, saying unto them: What is it that
ye desire of me, after that I am gone to the Father?

3 Nephi 28:2
 2 And they all spake, save it were three, saying: We desire that
after we have lived unto the age of man, that our ministry,
wherein thou hast called us, may have an end, that we may
speedily come unto thee in thy kingdom.

3 Nephi 28:3
 3 And he said unto them: Blessed are ye because ye desired this
thing of me; therefore, after that ye are seventy and two years
old ye shall come unto me in my kingdom; and with me ye shall
find rest.

3 Nephi 28:4
 4 And when he had spoken unto them, he turned himself unto the
three, and said unto them: What will ye that I should do unto
you, when I am gone unto the Father?

3 Nephi 28:5
 5 And they sorrowed in their hearts, for they durst not speak
unto him the things which they desired.

3 Nephi 28:6
 6 And he said unto them: Behold, I know your thoughts, and ye
have desired the thing which John, my beloved, who was with me in
my ministry, before that I was lifted up by the Jews, desired of
me.

3 Nephi 28:7
 7 Therefore, more blessed are ye, for ye shall never taste of
death; but ye shall live to behold all the doings of the Father
unto the children of men, even until all things shall be
fulfilled according to the will of the Father, when I shall come
in my glory with the powers of heaven.

3 Nephi 28:8
 8 And ye shall never endure the pains of death; but when I shall
come in my glory ye shall be changed in the twinkling of an eye
from mortality to immortality; and then shall ye be blessed in
the kingdom of my Father.

3 Nephi 28:9
 9 And again, ye shall not have pain while ye shall dwell in the
flesh, neither sorrow save it be for the sins of the world; and
all this will I do because of the thing which ye have desired of
me, for ye have desired that ye might bring the souls of men unto
me, while the world shall stand.

3 Nephi 28:10
 10 And for this cause ye shall have fulness of joy; and ye shall
sit down in the kingdom of my Father; yea, your joy shall be
full, even as the Father hath given me fulness of joy; and ye
shall be even as I am, and I am even as the Father; and the
Father and I are one;

3 Nephi 28:11
 11 And the Holy Ghost beareth record of the Father and me; and
the Father giveth the Holy Ghost unto the children of men,
because of me.

3 Nephi 28:12
 12 And it came to pass that when Jesus had spoken these words,
he touched every one of them with his finger save it were the
three who were to tarry, and then he departed.

3 Nephi 28:13
 13 And behold, the heavens were opened, and they were caught up
into heaven, and saw and heard unspeakable things.

3 Nephi 28:14
 14 And it was forbidden them that they should utter; neither was
it given unto them power that they could utter the things which
they saw and heard;

3 Nephi 28:15
 15 And whether they were in the body or out of the body, they
could not tell; for it did seem unto them like a transfiguration
of them, that they were changed from this body of flesh into an
immortal state, that they could behold the things of God.

3 Nephi 28:16
 16 But it came to pass that they did again minister upon the
face of the earth; nevertheless they did not minister of the
things which they had heard and seen, because of the commandment
which was given them in heaven.

3 Nephi 28:17
 17 And now, whether they were mortal or immortal, from the day
of their transfiguration, I know not;

3 Nephi 28:18
 18 But this much I know, according to the record which hath been
given--they did go forth upon the face of the land, and did
minister unto all the people, uniting as many to the church as
would believe in their preaching; baptizing them, and as many as
were baptized did receive the Holy Ghost.

3 Nephi 28:19
 19 And they were cast into prison by them who did not belong to
the church. And the prisons could not hold them, for they were
rent in twain.

3 Nephi 28:20
 20 And they were cast down into the earth; but they did smite
the earth with the word of God, insomuch that by his power they
were delivered out of the depths of the earth; and therefore they
could not dig pits sufficient to hold them.

3 Nephi 28:21
 21 And thrice they were cast into a furnace and received no
hard.

3 Nephi 28:22
 22 And twice were they cast into a den of wild beasts; and
behold they did play with the beasts as a child with a suckling
lamb, and received no harm.

3 Nephi 28:23
 23 And it came to pass that thus they did go forth among all the
people of Nephi, and did preach the gospel of Christ unto all
people upon the face of the land; and they were converted unto
the Lord, and were united unto the church of Christ, and thus the
people of that generation were blessed, according to the word of
Jesus.

3 Nephi 28:24
 24 And now I, Mormon, make an end of speaking concerning these
things for a time.

3 Nephi 28:25
 25 Behold, I was about to write the names of those who were
never to taste of death, but the Lord forbade; therefore I write
them not, for they are hid from the world.

3 Nephi 28:26
 26 But behold, I have seen them, and they have ministered unto
me.

3 Nephi 28:27
 27 And behold they will be among the Gentiles, and the Gentiles
shall know them not.

3 Nephi 28:28
 28 They will also be among the Jews, and the Jews shall know
them not.

3 Nephi 28:29
 29 And it shall come to pass, when the Lord seeth fit in his
wisdom that they shall minister unto all the scattered tribes of
Israel, and unto all nations, kindreds, tongues and people, and
shall bring out of them unto Jesus many souls, that their desire
may be fulfilled, and also because of the convincing power of God
which is in them.

3 Nephi 28:30
 30 And they are as the angels of God, and if they shall pray
unto the Father in the name of Jesus they can show themselves
unto whatsoever man it seemeth them good.

3 Nephi 28:31
 31 Therefore, great and marvelous works shall be wrought by
them, before the great and coming day when all people must surely
stand before the judgment-seat of Christ;

3 Nephi 28:32
 32 Yea even among the Gentiles shall there be a great and
marvelous work wrought by them, before that judgment day.

3 Nephi 28:33
 33 And if ye had all the scriptures which give an account of all
the marvelous works of Christ, ye would, according to the words
of Christ, know that these things must surely come.

3 Nephi 28:34
 34 And wo be unto him that will not hearken unto the words of
Jesus, and also to them whom he hath chosen and sent among them;
for whoso receiveth not the words of Jesus and the words of those
whom he hath sent receiveth not him; and therefore he will not
receive them at the last day;

3 Nephi 28:35
 35 And it would be better for them if they had not been born.
For do ye suppose that ye can get rid of the justice of an
offended God, who hath been trampled under feet of men, that
thereby salvation might come?

3 Nephi 28:36
 36 And now behold, as I spake concerning those whom the Lord
hath chosen, yea, even three who were caught up into the heavens,
that I knew not whether they were cleansed from mortality to
immortality--

3 Nephi 28:37
 37 But behold, since I wrote, I have inquired of the Lord, and
he hath made it manifest unto me that there must needs be a
change wrought upon their bodies, or else it needs be that they
must taste of death;

3 Nephi 28:38
 38 Therefore, that they might not taste of death there was a
change wrought upon their bodies, that they might not suffer pain
nor sorrow save it were for the sins of the world.

3 Nephi 28:39
 39 Now this change was not equal to that which shall take place
at the last day; but there was a change wrought upon them,
insomuch that Satan could have no power over them, that he could
not tempt them; and they were sanctified in the flesh, that they
were holy, and that the powers of the earth could not hold them.
3 Nephi 28:40
 40 And in this state they were to remain until the judgment day
of Christ; and at that day they were to receive a greater change,
and to be received into the kingdom of the Father to go no more
out, but to dwell eternally in the heavens.

3 Nephi 29
Chapter 29

3 Nephi 29:1
 1 And now behold, I say unto you that when the Lord shall see
fit, in his wisdom, that these sayings shall come unto the
Gentiles according to his word, then ye may know that the
covenant which the Father hath made with the children of Israel,
concerning their restoration to the lands of their inheritance,
is already beginning to be fulfilled.

3 Nephi 29:2
 2 And ye may know that the words of the Lord, which have been
spoken by the holy prophets, shall all be fulfilled; and ye need
not say that the Lord delays his coming unto the children of
Israel.

3 Nephi 29:3
 3 And ye need not imagine in your hearts that the words which
have been spoken are vain, for behold, the Lord will remember his
covenant which he hath made unto his people of the house of
Israel.

3 Nephi 29:4
 4 And when ye shall see these sayings coming forth among you,
then ye need not any longer spurn at the doings of the Lord, for
the sword of his justice is in his right hand; and behold, at
that day, if ye shall spurn at his doings he will cause that it
shall soon overtake you.

3 Nephi 29:5
 5 Wo unto him that spurneth at the doings of the Lord; yea, wo
unto him that shall deny the Christ and his works!

3 Nephi 29:6
 6 Yea, wo unto him that shall deny the revelations of the Lord,
and that shall say the Lord no longer worketh by revelation, or
by prophecy, or by gifts, or by tongues, or by healings, or by
the power of the Holy Ghost!

3 Nephi 29:7
 7 Yea, and wo unto him that shall say at that day, to get gain,
that there can be no miracle wrought by Jesus Christ; for he that
doeth this shall become like unto the son of perdition, for whom
there was no mercy, according to the word of Christ!

3 Nephi 29:8
 8 Yea, and ye need not any longer hiss, nor spurn, nor make game
of the Jews, nor any of the remnant of the house of Israel; for
behold, the Lord remembereth his covenant unto them, and he will
do unto them according to that which he hath sworn.

3 Nephi 29:9
 9 Therefore ye need not suppose that ye can turn the right hand
of the Lord unto the left, that he may not execute judgment unto
the fulfilling of the covenant which he hath made unto the house
of Israel.

3 Nephi 30
Chapter 30

3 Nephi 30:1
 1 Hearken, O ye Gentiles, and hear the words of Jesus Christ,
the Son of the living God, which he hath commanded me that I
should speak concerning you, for, behold he commandeth me that I
should write, saying:

3 Nephi 30:2
 2 Turn, all ye Gentiles, from your wicked ways; and repent of
your evil doings, of your lyings and deceivings, and of your
whoredoms, and of your secret abominations, and your idolatries,
and of your murders, and your priestcrafts, and your envyings,
and your strifes, and from all your wickedness and abominations,
and come unto me, and be baptized in my name, that ye may receive
a remission of your sins, and be filled with the Holy Ghost, that
ye may be numbered with my people who are of the house of Israel.

4 Nephi 1
FOURTH NEPHI
THE BOOK OF NEPHI
WHO IS THE SON OF NEPHI--ONE OF THE DISCIPLES OF JESUS CHRIST
An account of the people of Nephi, according to his record.

4 Nephi 1:1
 1 And it came to pass that the thirty and fourth year passed
away, and also the thirty and fifth, and behold the disciples of
Jesus had formed a church of Christ in all the lands round about.

And as many as did come unto them, and did truly repent of their
sins, were baptized in the name of Jesus; and they did also
receive the Holy Ghost.

4 Nephi 1:2
 2 And it came to pass in the thirty and sixth year, the people
were all converted unto the Lord, upon all the face of the land,
both Nephites and Lamanites, and there were no contentions and
disputations among them, and every man did deal justly one with
another.

4 Nephi 1:3
 3 And they had all things common among them; therefore there
were not rich and poor, bond and free, but they were all made
free, and partakers of the heavenly gift.

4 Nephi 1:4
 4 And it came to pass that the thirty and seventh year passed
away also, and there still continued to be peace in the land.

4 Nephi 1:5
 5 And there were great and marvelous works wrought by the
disciples of Jesus, insomuch that they did heal the sick, and
raise the dead, and cause the lame to walk, and the blind to
receive their sight, and the deaf to hear; and all manner of
miracles did they work among the children of men; and in nothing
did they work miracles save it were in the name of Jesus.

4 Nephi 1:6
 6 And thus did the thirty and eighth year pass away, and also
the thirty and ninth, and forty and first, and the forty and
second, yea, even until forty and nine years had passed away, and
also the fifty and first, and the fifty and second; yea, and even
until fifty and nine years had passed away.

4 Nephi 1:7
 7 And the Lord did prosper them exceedingly in the land; yea,
insomuch that they did build cities again where there had been
cities burned.

4 Nephi 1:8
 8 Yea, even that great city Zarahemla did they cause to be built
again.

4 Nephi 1:9
 9 But there were many cities which had been sunk, and waters
came up in the stead thereof; therefore these cities could not be
renewed.

4 Nephi 1:10
 10 And now, behold, it came to pass that the people of Nephi did
wax strong, and did multiply exceedingly fast, and became an
exceedingly fair and delightsome people.

4 Nephi 1:11
 11 And they were married, and given in marriage, and were
blessed according to the multitude of the promises which the Lord
had made unto them.

4 Nephi 1:12
 12 And they did not walk any more after the performances and
ordinances of the law of Moses; but they did walk after the
commandments which they had received from their Lord and their
God, continuing in fasting and prayer, and in meeting together
oft both to pray and to hear the word of the Lord.

4 Nephi 1:13
 13 And it came to pass that there was no contention among all
the people, in all the land; but there were mighty miracles
wrought among the disciples of Jesus.

4 Nephi 1:14
 14 And it came to pass that the seventy and first year passed
away, and also the seventy and second year, yea, and in fine,
till the seventy and ninth year had passed away; yea, even an
hundred years had passed away, and the disciples of Jesus, whom
he had chosen, had all gone to the paradise of God, save it were
the three who should tarry; and there were other disciples
ordained in their stead; and also many of that generation had
passed away.

4 Nephi 1:15
 15 And it came to pass that there was no contention in the land,
because of the love of God which did dwell in the hearts of the
people.

4 Nephi 1:16
 16 And there were no envyings, nor strifes, nor tumults, nor
whoredoms, nor lyings, nor murders, nor any manner of
lasciviousness; and surely there could not be a happier people
among all the people who had been created by the hand of God.

4 Nephi 1:17
 17 There were no robbers, nor murderers, neither were there
Lamanites, nor any manner of -ites; but they were in one, the
children of Christ, and heirs to the kingdom of God.

4 Nephi 1:18
 18 And how blessed were they!  For the Lord did bless them in
all their doings; yea, even they were blessed and prospered until
an hundred and ten years had passed away; and the first
generation from Christ had passed away, and there was no
contention in all the land.

4 Nephi 1:19
 19 And it came to pass that Nephi, he that kept this last
record, (and he kept it upon the plates of Nephi) died, and his
son Amos kept it in his stead; and he kept it upon the plates of
Nephi also.

4 Nephi 1:20
 20 And he kept it eighty and four years, and there was still
peace in the land, save it were a small part of the people who
had revolted from the church and taken upon them the name of
Lamanites; therefore there began to be Lamanites again in the
land.

4 Nephi 1:21
 21 And it came to pass that Amos died also, (and it was an
hundred and ninety and four years from the coming of Christ) and
his son Amos kept the record in his stead; and he also kept it
upon the plates of Nephi; and it was also written in the book of
Nephi, which is this book.

4 Nephi 1:22
 22 And it came to pass that two hundred years had passed away;
and the second generation had all passed away save it were a few.

4 Nephi 1:23
 23 And now I, Mormon, would that ye should know that the people
had multiplied, insomuch that they were spread upon all the face
of the land, and that they had become exceedingly rich, because
of their prosperity in Christ.

4 Nephi 1:24
 24 And now, in this two hundred and first year there began to be
among them those who were lifted up in pride, such as the wearing
of costly apparel, and all manner of fine pearls, and of the fine
things of the world.

4 Nephi 1:25
 25 And from that time forth they did have their goods and their
substance no more common among them.

4 Nephi 1:26
 26 And they began to be divided into classes; and they began to
build up churches unto themselves to get gain, and began to deny
the true church of Christ.

4 Nephi 1:27
 27 And it came to pass that when two hundred and ten years had
passed away there were many churches in the land; yea, there were
many churches which professed to know the Christ, and yet they
did deny the more parts of his gospel, insomuch that they did
receive all manner of wickedness, and did administer that which
was sacred unto him to whom it had been forbidden because of
unworthiness.

4 Nephi 1:28
 28 And this church did multiply exceedingly because of iniquity,
and because of the power of Satan who did get hold upon their
hearts.

4 Nephi 1:29
 29 And again, there was another church which denied the Christ;
and they did persecute the true church of Christ, because of
their humility and their belief in Christ; and they did despise
them because of the many miracles which were wrought among them.

4 Nephi 1:30
 30 Therefore they did exercise power and authority over the
disciples of Jesus who did tarry with them, and they did cast
them into prison; but by the power of the word of God, which was
in them, the prisons were rent in twain, and they went forth
doing mighty miracles among them.

4 Nephi 1:31
 31 Nevertheless, and notwithstanding all these miracles, the
people did harden their hearts, and did seek to kill them, even
as the Jews at Jerusalem sought to kill Jesus, according to his
word.

4 Nephi 1:32
 32 And they did cast them into furnaces of fire, and they came
forth receiving no harm.

4 Nephi 1:33
 33 And they also cast them into dens of wild beasts, and they
did play with the wild beasts even as a child with a lamb; and
they did come forth from among them, receiving no harm.

4 Nephi 1:34
 34 Nevertheless, the people did harden their hearts, for they
were led by many priests and false prophets to build up many
churches, and to do all manner of iniquity.  And they did smite
upon the people of Jesus; but the people of Jesus did not smite
again.  And thus they did dwindle in unbelief and wickedness,
from year to year, even until two hundred and thirty years had
passed away.

4 Nephi 1:35
 35 And now it came to pass in this year, yea, in the two hundred
and thirty and first year, there was a great division among the
people.

4 Nephi 1:36
 36 And it came to pass that in this year there arose a people
who were called the Nephites, and they were true believers in
Christ; and among them there were those who were called by the
Lamanites--Jacobites, and Josephites, and Zoramites;

4 Nephi 1:37
 37 Therefore the true believers in Christ, and the true
worshipers of Christ, (among whom were the three disciples of
Jesus who should tarry) were called Nephites, and Jacobites, and
Josephites, and Zoramites.

4 Nephi 1:38
 38 And it came to pass that they who rejected the gospel were
called Lamanites, and Lemuelites, and Ishmaelites; and they did
not dwindle in unbelief, but they did wilfully rebel against the
gospel of Christ; and they did teach their children that they
should not believe, even as their fathers, from the beginning,
did dwindle.

4 Nephi 1:39
 39 And it was because of the wickedness and abomination of their
fathers, even as it was in the beginning.  And they were taught
to hate the children of God, even as the Lamanites were taught to
hate the children of Nephi from the beginning.

4 Nephi 1:40
 40 And it came to pass that two hundred and forty and four years
had passed away, and thus were the affairs of the people.  And
the more wicked part of the people did wax strong, and became
exceedingly more numerous than were the people of God.

4 Nephi 1:41
 41 And they did still continue to build up churches unto
themselves, and adorn them with all manner of precious things. 
And thus did two hundred and fifty years pass away, and also two
hundred and sixty years.

4 Nephi 1:42
 42 And it came to pass that the wicked part of the people began
again to build up the secret oaths and combinations of Gadianton.

4 Nephi 1:43
 43 And also the people who were called the people of Nephi began
to be proud in their hearts, because of their exceeding riches,
and become vain like unto their brethren, the Lamanites.

4 Nephi 1:44
 44 And from this time the disciples began to sorrow for the sins
of the world.

4 Nephi 1:45
 45 And it came to pass that when three hundred years had passed
away, both the people of Nephi and the Lamanites had become
exceedingly wicked one like unto another.

4 Nephi 1:46
 46 And it came to pass that the robbers of Gadianton did spread
over all the face of the land; and there were none that were
righteous save it were the disciples of Jesus.  And gold and
silver did they lay up in store in abundance, and did traffic in
all manner of traffic.

4 Nephi 1:47
 47 And it came to pass that after three hundred and five years
had passed away, (and the people did still remain in wickedness)
Amos died; and his brother, Ammaron, did keep the record in his
stead.

4 Nephi 1:48
 48 And it came to pass that when three hundred and twenty years
had passed away, Ammaron, being constrained by the Holy Ghost,
did hide up the records which were sacred--yea, even all the
sacred records which had been handed down from generation to
generation, which were sacred--even until the three hundred and
twentieth year from the coming of Christ.

4 Nephi 1:49
 49 And he did hide them up unto the Lord that they might come
again unto the remnant of the house of Jacob according to the
prophecies and the promises of the Lord.  And thus is the end of
the record of Ammaron.

Mormon
THE BOOK OF MORMON

Mormon 1
Chapter 1

Mormon 1:1
 1 And now I, Mormon, make a record of the things which I have
both seen and heard, and call it the Book of Mormon.

Mormon 1:2
 2 And about the time that Ammaron hid up the records unto the
Lord, he came unto me, (I being about ten years of age, and I
began to be learned somewhat after the manner of the learning of
my people) and Ammaron said unto me: I perceive that thou art a
sober child, and art quick to observe;

Mormon 1:3
 3 Therefore, when ye are about twenty and four years old I would
that ye should remember the things that ye have observed
concerning this people; and when ye are of that age go to the
land Antum, unto a hill which shall be called Shim; and there
have I deposited unto the Lord all the sacred engravings
concerning this people.

Mormon 1:4
 4 And behold, ye shall take the plates of Nephi unto yourself,
and the remainder shall ye leave in the place where they are; and
ye shall engrave on the plates of Nephi all the things that ye
have observed concerning this people.

Mormon 1:5
 5 And I, Mormon, being a descendant of Nephi, (and my father's
name was Mormon) I remembered the things which Ammaron commanded
me.

Mormon 1:6
 6 And it came to pass that I, being eleven years old, was
carried by my father into the land southward, even to the land of
Zarahemla.

Mormon 1:7
 7 The whole face of the land had become covered with buildings,
and the people were as numerous almost, as it were the sand of
the sea.

Mormon 1:8
 8 And it came to pass in this year there began to be a war
between the Nephites, who consisted of the Nephites and the
Jacobites and the Josephites and the Zoramites; and this war was
between the Nephites, and the Lamanites and the Lemuelites and
the Ishmaelites.

Mormon 1:9
 9 Now the Lamanites and the Lemuelites and the Ishmaelites were
called Lamanites, and the two parties were Nephites and
Lamanites.

Mormon 1:10
 10 And it came to pass that the war began to be among them in
the borders of Zarahemla, by the waters of Sidon.

Mormon 1:11
 11 And it came to pass that the Nephites had gathered together a
great number of men, even to exceed the number of thirty
thousand.  And it came to pass that they did have in this same
year a number of battles, in which the Nephites did beat the
Lamanites and did slay many of them.

Mormon 1:12
 12 And it came to pass that the Lamanites withdrew their design,
and there was peace settled in the land; and peace did remain for
the space of about four years, that there was no bloodshed.

Mormon 1:13
 13 But wickedness did prevail upon the face of the whole land,
insomuch that the Lord did take away his beloved disciples, and
the work of miracles and of healing did cease because of the
iniquity of the people.

Mormon 1:14
 14 And there were no gifts from the Lord, and the Holy Ghost did
not come upon any, because of their wickedness and unbelief.

Mormon 1:15
 15 And I, being fifteen years of age and being somewhat of a
sober mind, therefore I was visited of the Lord, and tasted and
knew of the goodness of Jesus.

Mormon 1:16
 16 And I did endeavor to preach unto this people, but my mouth
was shut, and I was forbidden that I should preach unto them; for
behold they had wilfully rebelled against their God; and the
beloved disciples were taken away out of the land, because of
their iniquity.

Mormon 1:17
 17 But I did remain among them, but I was forbidden to preach
unto them, because of the hardness of their hearts; and because
of the hardness of their hearts the land was cursed for their
sake.

Mormon 1:18
 18 And these Gadianton robbers, who were among the Lamanites,
did infest the land, insomuch that the inhabitants thereof began
to hide up their treasures in the earth; and they became
slippery, because the Lord had cursed the land, that they could
not hold them, nor retain them again.

Mormon 1:19
 19 And it came to pass that there were sorceries, and
witchcrafts, and magics; and the power of the evil one was
wrought upon all the face of the land, even unto the fulfilling
of all the words of Abinadi, and also Samuel the Lamanite.

Mormon 2
Chapter 2

Mormon 2:1
 1 And it came to pass in that same year there began to be a war
again between the Nephites and the Lamanites.  And
notwithstanding I being young, was large in stature; therefore
the people of Nephi appointed me that I should be their leader,
or the leader of their armies.

Mormon 2:2
 2 Therefore it came to pass that in my sixteenth year I did go
forth at the head of an army of the Nephites, against the
Lamanites; therefore three hundred and twenty and six years had
passed away.

Mormon 2:3
 3 And it came to pass that in the three hundred and twenty and
seventh year the Lamanites did come upon us with exceedingly
great power, insomuch that they did frighten my armies; therefore
they would not fight, and they began to retreat towards the north
countries.

Mormon 2:4
 4 And it came to pass that we did come to the city of Angola,
and we did take possession of the city, and make preparations to
defend ourselves against the Lamanites.  And it came to pass that
we did fortify the city with our might; but notwithstanding all
our fortifications the Lamanites did come upon us and did drive
us out of the city.

Mormon 2:5
 5 And they did also drive us forth out of the land of David.

Mormon 2:6
 6 And we marched forth and came to the land of Joshua, which was
in the borders west by the seashore.

Mormon 2:7
 7 And it came to pass that we did gather in our people as fast
as it were possible, that we might get them together in one body.

Mormon 2:8
 8 But behold, the land was filled with robbers and with
Lamanites; and notwithstanding the great destruction which hung
over my people, they did not repent of their evil doings;
therefore there was blood and carnage spread throughout all the
face of the land, both on the part of the Nephites and also on
the part of the Lamanites; and it was one complete revolution
throughout all the face of the land.

Mormon 2:9
 9 And now, the Lamanites had a king, and his name was Aaron; and
he came against us with an army of forty and four thousand.  And
behold, I withstood him with forty and two thousand.  And it came
to pass that I beat him with my army that he fled before me.  And
behold, all this was done, and three hundred and thirty years had
passed away.

Mormon 2:10
 10 And it came to pass that the Nephites began to repent of
their iniquity, and began to cry even as had been prophesied by
Samuel the prophet; for behold no man could keep that which was
his own, for the thieves, and the robbers, and the murderers, and
the magic art, and the witchcraft which was in the land.

Mormon 2:11
 11 Thus there began to be a mourning and a lamentation in all
the land because of these things, and more especially among the
people of Nephi.

Mormon 2:12
 12 And it came to pass that when I, Mormon, saw their
lamentation and their mourning and their sorrow before the Lord,
my heart did begin to rejoice within me, knowing the mercies and
the long-suffering of the Lord, therefore supposing that he would
be merciful unto them that they would again become a righteous
people.

Mormon 2:13
 13 But behold this my joy was vain, for their sorrowing was not
unto repentance, because of the goodness of God; but it was
rather the sorrowing of the damned, because the Lord would not
always suffer them to take happiness in sin.

Mormon 2:14
 14 And they did not come unto Jesus with broken hearts and
contrite spirits, but they did curse God, and wish to die. 
Nevertheless they would struggle with the sword for their lives.

Mormon 2:15
 15 And it came to pass that my sorrow did return unto me again,
and I saw that the day of grace was passed with them, both
temporally and spiritually; for I saw thousands of them hewn down
in open rebellion against their God, and heaped up as dung upon
the face of the land.  And thus three hundred and forty and four
years had passed away.

Mormon 2:16
 16 And it came to pass that in the three hundred and forty and
fifth year the Nephites did begin to flee before the Lamanites;
and they were pursued until they came even to the land of Jashon,
before it was possible to stop them in their retreat.

Mormon 2:17
 17 And now, the city of Jashon was near the land where Ammaron
had deposited the records unto the Lord, that they might not be
destroyed.  And behold I had gone according to the word of
Ammaron, and taken the plates of Nephi, and did make a record
according to the words of Ammaron.

Mormon 2:18
 18 And upon the plates of Nephi I did make a full account of all
the wickedness and abominations; but upon these plates I did
forbear to make a full account of their wickedness and
abominations, for behold, a continual scene of wickedness and
abominations has been before mine eyes ever since I have been
sufficient to behold the ways of man.

Mormon 2:19
 19 And wo is me because of their wickedness; for my heart has
been filled with sorrow because of their wickedness, all my days;
nevertheless, I know that I shall be lifted up at the last day.

Mormon 2:20
 20 And it came to pass that in this year the people of Nephi
again were hunted and driven.  And it came to pass that we were
driven forth until we had come northward to the land which was
called Shem.

Mormon 2:21
 21 And it came to pass that we did fortify the city of Shem, and
we did gather in our people as much as it were possible, that
perhaps we might save them from destruction.

Mormon 2:22
 22 And it came to pass in the three hundred and forty and sixth
year they began to come upon us again.

Mormon 2:23
 23 And it came to pass that I did speak unto my people, and did
urge them with great energy, that they would stand boldly before
the Lamanites and fight for their wives, and their children, and
their houses, and their homes.

Mormon 2:24
 24 And my words did arouse them somewhat to vigor, insomuch that
they did not flee from before the Lamanites, but did stand with
boldness against them.

Mormon 2:25
 25 And it came to pass that we did contend with an army of
thirty thousand against an army of fifty thousand.  And it came
to pass that we did stand before them with such firmness that
they did flee from before us.

Mormon 2:26
 26 And it came to pass that when they had fled we did pursue
them with our armies, and did meet them again, and did beat them;
nevertheless the strength of the Lord was not with us; yea, we
were left to ourselves, that the Spirit of the Lord did not abide
in us; therefore we had become weak like unto our brethren.

Mormon 2:27
 27 And my heart did sorrow because of this the great calamity of
my people, because of their wickedness and their abominations. 
But behold, we did go forth against the Lamanites and the robbers
of Gadianton, until we had again taken possession of the lands of
our inheritance.

Mormon 2:28
 28 And the three hundred and forty and ninth year had passed
away.  And in the three hundred and fiftieth year we made a
treaty with the Lamanites and the robbers of Gadianton, in which
we did get the lands of our inheritance divided.

Mormon 2:29
 29 And the Lamanites did give unto us the land northward, yea,
even to the narrow passage which led into the land southward. 
And we did give unto the Lamanites all the land southward.

Mormon 3
Chapter 3

Mormon 3:1
 1 And it came to pass that the Lamanites did not come to battle
again until ten years more had passed away.  And behold, I had
employed my people, the Nephites, in preparing their lands and
their arms against the time of battle.

Mormon 3:2
 2 And it came to pass that the Lord did say unto me: Cry unto
this people--Repent ye, and come unto me, and be ye baptized, and
build up again my church, and ye shall be spared.

Mormon 3:3
 3 And I did cry unto this people, but it was in vain; and they
did not realize that it was the Lord that had spared them, and
granted unto them a chance for repentance.  And behold they did
harden their hearts against the Lord their God.

Mormon 3:4
 4 And it came to pass that after this tenth year had passed
away, making, in the whole, three hundred and sixty years from
the coming of Christ, the king of the Lamanites sent an epistle
unto me, which gave unto me to know that they were preparing to
come again to battle against us.

Mormon 3:5
 5 And it came to pass that I did cause my people that they
should gather themselves together at the land Desolation, to a
city which was in the borders, by the narrow pass which led into
the land southward.

Mormon 3:6
 6 And there we did place our armies, that we might stop the
armies of the Lamanites, that they might not get possession of
any of our lands; therefore we did fortify against them with all
our force.

Mormon 3:7
 7 And it came to pass that in the three hundred and sixty and
first year the Lamanites did come down to the city of Desolation
to battle against us; and it came to pass that in that year we
did beat them, insomuch that they did return to their own lands
again.

Mormon 3:8
 8 And in the three hundred and sixty and second year they did
come down again to battle.  And we did beat them again, and did
slay a great number of them, and their dead were cast into the
sea.

Mormon 3:9
 9 And now, because of this great thing which my people, the
Nephites, had done, they began to boast in their own strength,
and began to swear before the heavens that they would avenge
themselves of the blood of their brethren who had been slain by
their enemies.

Mormon 3:10
 10 And they did swear by the heavens, and also by the throne of
God, that they would go up to battle against their enemies, and
would cut them off from the face of the land.

Mormon 3:11
 11 And it came to pass that I, Mormon, did utterly refuse from
this time forth to be a commander and a leader of this people,
because of their wickedness and abomination.

Mormon 3:12
 12 Behold, I had led them, notwithstanding their wickedness I
had led them many times to battle, and had loved them, according
to the love of God which was in me, with all my heart; and my
soul had been poured out in prayer unto my God all the day long
for them; nevertheless, it was without faith, because of the
hardness of their hearts.

Mormon 3:13
 13 And thrice have I delivered them out of the hands of their
enemies, and they have repented not of their sins.

Mormon 3:14
 14 And when they had sworn by all that had been forbidden them
by our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, that they would go up unto
their enemies to battle, and avenge themselves of the blood of
their brethren, behold the voice of the Lord came unto me saying:

Mormon 3:15
 15 Vengeance is mine, and I will repay; and because this people
repented not after I had delivered them, behold, they shall be
cut off from the face of the earth.

Mormon 3:16
 16 And it came to pass that I utterly refused to go up against
mine enemies; and I did even as the Lord had commanded me; and I
did stand as an idle witness to manifest unto the world the
things which I saw and heard, according to the manifestations of
the Spirit which had testified of things to come.

Mormon 3:17
 17 Therefore I write unto you, Gentiles, and also unto you,
house of Israel, when the work shall commence, that ye shall be
about to prepare to return to the land of your inheritance;

Mormon 3:18
 18 Yea, behold, I write unto all the ends of the earth; yea,
unto you, twelve tribes of Israel, who shall be judged according
to your works by the twelve whom Jesus chose to be his disciples
in the land of Jerusalem.

Mormon 3:19
 19 And I write also unto the remnant of this people, who shall
also be judged by the twelve whom Jesus chose in this land; and
they shall be judged by the other twelve whom Jesus chose in the
land of Jerusalem.

Mormon 3:20
 20 And these things doth the Spirit manifest unto me; therefore
I write unto you all.  And for this cause I write unto you, that
ye may know that ye must all stand before the judgment-seat of
Christ, yea, every soul who belongs to the whole human family of
Adam; and ye must stand to be judged of your works, whether they
be good or evil;

Mormon 3:21
 21 And also that ye may believe the gospel of Jesus Christ,
which ye shall have among you; and also that the Jews, the
covenant people of the Lord, shall have other witness besides him
whom they saw and heard, that Jesus, whom they slew, was the very
Christ and the very God.

Mormon 3:22
 22 And I would that I could persuade all ye ends of the earth to
repent and prepare to stand before the judgment-seat of Christ.

Mormon 4
Chapter 4

Mormon 4:1
 1 And now it came to pass that in the three hundred and sixty
and third year the Nephites did go up with their armies to battle
against the Lamanites, out of the land Desolation.

Mormon 4:2
 2 And it came to pass that the armies of the Nephites were
driven back again to the land of Desolation.  And while they were
yet weary, a fresh army of the Lamanites did come upon them; and
they had a sore battle, insomuch that the Lamanites did take
possession of the city Desolation, and did slay many of the
Nephites, and did take many prisoners.

Mormon 4:3
 3 And the remainder did flee and join the inhabitants of the
city Teancum.  Now the city Teancum lay in the borders by the
seashore; and it was also near the city Desolation.

Mormon 4:4
 4 And it was because the armies of the Nephites went up unto the
Lamanites that they began to be smitten; for were it not for
that, the Lamanites could have had no power over them.

Mormon 4:5
 5 But, behold, the judgments of God will overtake the wicked;
and it is by the wicked that the wicked are punished; for it is
the wicked that stir up the hearts of the children of men unto
bloodshed.

Mormon 4:6
 6 And it came to pass that the Lamanites did make preparations
to come against the city Teancum.

Mormon 4:7
 7 And it came to pass in the three hundred and sixty and fourth
year the Lamanites did come against the city Teancum, that they
might take possession of the city Teancum also.

Mormon 4:8
 8 And it came to pass that they were repulsed and driven back by
the Nephites.  And when the Nephites saw that they had driven the
Lamanites they did again boast of their own strength; and they
went forth in their own might, and took possession again of the
city Desolation.

Mormon 4:9
 9 And now all these things had been done, and there had been
thousands slain on both sides, both the Nephites and the
Lamanites.

Mormon 4:10
 10 And it came to pass that the three hundred and sixty and
sixth year had passed away, and the Lamanites came again upon the
Nephites to battle; and yet the Nephites repented not of the evil
they had done, but persisted in their wickedness continually.

Mormon 4:11
 11 And it is impossible for the tongue to describe, or for man
to write a perfect description of the horrible scene of the blood
and carnage which was among the people, both of the Nephites and
of the Lamanites; and every heart was hardened, so that they
delighted in the shedding of blood continually.

Mormon 4:12
 12 And there never had been so great wickedness among all the
children of Lehi, nor even among all the house of Israel,
according to the words of the Lord, as was among this people.

Mormon 4:13
 13 And it came to pass that the Lamanites did take possession of
the city Desolation, and this because their number did exceed the
number of the Nephites.

Mormon 4:14
 14 And they did also march forward against the city Teancum, and
did drive the inhabitants forth out of her, and did take many
prisoners both women and children, and did offer them up as
sacrifices unto their idol gods.

Mormon 4:15
 15 And it came to pass that in the three hundred and sixty and
seventh year, the Nephites being angry because the Lamanites had
sacrificed their women and their children, that they did go
against the Lamanites with exceedingly great anger, insomuch that
they did beat again the Lamanites, and drive them out of their
lands.

Mormon 4:16
 16 And the Lamanites did not come again against the Nephites
until the three hundred and seventy and fifth year.

Mormon 4:17
 17 And in this year they did come down against the Nephites with
all their powers; and they were not numbered because of the
greatness of their number.

Mormon 4:18
 18 And from this time forth did the Nephites gain no power over
the Lamanites, but began to be swept off by them even as a dew
before the sun.

Mormon 4:19
 19 And it came to pass that the Lamanites did come down against
the city Desolation; and there was an exceedingly sore battle
fought in the land Desolation, in the which they did beat the
Nephites.

Mormon 4:20
 20 And they fled again from before them, and they came to the
city Boaz; and there they did stand against the Lamanites with
exceeding boldness, insomuch that the Lamanites did not beat them
until they had come again the second time.

Mormon 4:21
 21 And when they had come the second time, the Nephites were
driven and slaughtered with an exceedingly great slaughter; their
women and their children were again sacrificed unto idols.

Mormon 4:22
 22 And it came to pass that the Nephites did again flee from
before them, taking all the inhabitants with them, both in towns
and villages.

Mormon 4:23
 23 And now I, Mormon, seeing that the Lamanites were about to
overthrow the land, therefore I did go to the hill Shim, and did
take up all the records which Ammaron had hid up unto the Lord.

Mormon 5
Chapter 5

Mormon 5:1
 1 And it came to pass that I did go forth among the Nephites,
and did repent of the oath which I had made that I would no more
assist them; and they gave me command again of their armies, for
they looked upon me as though I could deliver them from their
afflictions.

Mormon 5:2
 2 But behold, I was without hope, for I knew the judgments of
the Lord which should come upon them; for they repented not of
their iniquities, but did struggle for their lives without
calling upon that Being who created them.

Mormon 5:3
 3 And it came to pass that the Lamanites did come against us as
we had fled to the city of Jordan; but behold, they were driven
back that they did not take the city at that time.

Mormon 5:4
 4 And it came to pass that they came against us again, and we
did maintain the city.  And there were also other cities which
were maintained by Nephites, which strongholds did cut them off
that they could not get into the country which lay before us, to
destroy the inhabitants of our land.

Mormon 5:5
 5 And it came to pass that whatsoever lands we had passed by,
and the inhabitants thereof were not gathered in, were destroyed
by the Lamanites, and their towns, and villages, and cities were
burned with fire; and thus three hundred and seventy and nine
years passed away.

Mormon 5:6
 6 And it came to pass that in the three hundred and eightieth
year the Lamanites did come again against us to battle, and we
did stand against them boldly; but it was all in vain, for so
great were their numbers that they did tread the people of the
Nephites under their feet.

Mormon 5:7
 7 And it came to pass that we did again take to flight, and
those whose flight was swifter than the Lamanites' did escape,
and those whose flight did not exceed the Lamanites' were swept
down and destroyed.

Mormon 5:8
 8 And now behold, I, Mormon, do not desire to harrow up the
souls of men in casting before them such an awful scene of blood
and carnage as was laid before mine eyes; but I, knowing that
these things must surely be made known, and that all things which
are hid must be revealed upon the house-tops--

Mormon 5:9
 9 And also that a knowledge of these things must come unto the
remnant of these people, and also unto the Gentiles, who the Lord
hath said should scatter this people, and this people should be
counted as naught among them--therefore I write a small
abridgment, daring not to give a full account of the things which
I have seen, because of the commandment which I have received,
and also that ye might not have too great sorrow because of the
wickedness of this people.

Mormon 5:10
 10 And now behold, this I speak unto their seed, and also to the
Gentiles who have care for the house of Israel, that realize and
know from whence their blessings come.

Mormon 5:11
 11 For I know that such will sorrow for the calamity of the
house of Israel; yea, they will sorrow for the destruction of
this people; they will sorrow that this people had not repented
that they might have been clasped in the arms of Jesus.

Mormon 5:12
 12 Now these things are written unto the remnant of the house of
Jacob; and they are written after this manner, because it is
known of God that wickedness will not bring them forth unto them;
and they are to be hid up unto the Lord that they may come forth
in his own due time.

Mormon 5:13
 13 And this is the commandment which I have received; and
behold, they shall come forth according to the commandment of the
Lord, when he shall see fit, in his wisdom.

Mormon 5:14
 14 And behold, they shall go unto the unbelieving of the Jews;
and for this intent shall they go--that they may be persuaded
that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God; that the
Father may bring about, through his most Beloved, his great and
eternal purpose, in restoring the Jews, or all the house of
Israel, to the land of their inheritance, which the Lord their
God hath given them, unto the fulfilling of his covenant;

Mormon 5:15
 15 And also that the seed of this people may more fully believe
his gospel, which shall go forth unto them from the Gentiles; for
this people shall be scattered, and shall become a dark, a
filthy, and a loathsome people, beyond the description of that
which ever hath been amongst us, yea, even that which hath been
among the Lamanites, and this because of their unbelief and
idolatry.

Mormon 5:16
 16 For behold, the Spirit of the Lord hath already ceased to
strive with their fathers; and they are without Christ and God in
the world; and they are driven about as chaff before the wind.

Mormon 5:17
 17 They were once a delightsome people, and they had Christ for
their shepherd; yea, they were led even by God the Father.

Mormon 5:18
 18 But now, behold, they are led about by Satan, even as chaff
is driven before the wind, or as a vessel is tossed about upon
the waves, without sail or anchor, or without anything wherewith
to steer her; and even as she is, so are they.

Mormon 5:19
 19 And behold, the Lord hath reserved their blessings, which
they might have received in the land, for the Gentiles who shall
possess the land.

Mormon 5:20
 20 But behold, it shall come to pass that they shall be driven
and scattered by the Gentiles; and after they have been driven
and scattered by the Gentiles, behold, then will the Lord
remember the covenant which he made unto Abraham and unto all the
house of Israel.

Mormon 5:21
 21 And also the Lord will remember the prayers of the righteous,
which have been put up unto him for them.

Mormon 5:22
 22 And then, O ye Gentiles, how can ye stand before the power of
God, except ye shall repent and turn from your evil ways?

Mormon 5:23
 23 Know ye not that ye are in the hands of God?  Know ye not
that he hath all power, and at his great command the earth shall
be rolled together as a scroll?

Mormon 5:24
 24 Therefore, repent ye, and humble yourselves before him, lest
he shall come out in justice against you--lest a remnant of the
seed of Jacob shall go forth among you as a lion, and tear you in
pieces, and there is none to deliver.

Mormon 6
Chapter 6

Mormon 6:1
 1 And now I finish my record concerning the destruction of my
people, the Nephites.  And it came to pass that we did march
forth before the Lamanites.

Mormon 6:2
 2 And I, Mormon, wrote an epistle unto the king of the
Lamanites, and desired of him that he would grant unto us that we
might gather together our people unto the land of Cumorah, by a
hill which was called Cumorah, and there we could give them
battle.

Mormon 6:3
 3 And it came to pass that the king of the Lamanites did grant
unto me the thing which I desired.

Mormon 6:4
 4 And it came to pass that we did march forth to the land of
Cumorah, and we did pitch our tents around about the hill
Cumorah; and it was in a land of many waters, rivers, and
fountains; and here we had hope to gain advantage over the
Lamanites.

Mormon 6:5
 5 And when three hundred and eighty and four years had passed
away, we had gathered in all the remainder of our people unto the
land of Cumorah.

Mormon 6:6
 6 And it came to pass that when we had gathered in all our
people in one to the land of Cumorah, behold I, Mormon, began to
be old; and knowing it to be the last struggle of my people, and
having been commanded of the Lord that I should not suffer the
records which had been handed down by our fathers, which were
sacred, to fall into the hands of the Lamanites, (for the
Lamanites would destroy them) therefore I made this record out of
the plates of Nephi, and hid up in the hill Cumorah all the
records which had been entrusted to me by the hand of the Lord,
save it were these few plates which I gave unto my son Moroni.

Mormon 6:7
 7 And it came to pass that my people, with their wives and their
children, did now behold the armies of the Lamanites marching
towards them; and with that awful fear of death which fills the
breasts of all the wicked, did they await to receive them.

Mormon 6:8
 8 And it came to pass that they came to battle against us, and
every soul was filled with terror because of the greatness of
their numbers.

Mormon 6:9
 9 And it came to pass that they did fall upon my people with the
sword, and with the bow, and with the arrow, and with the ax, and
with all manner of weapons of war.

Mormon 6:10
 10 And it came to pass that my men were hewn down, yea, even my
ten thousand who were with me, and I fell wounded in the midst;
and they passed by me that they did not put an end to my life.

Mormon 6:11
 11 And when they had gone through and hewn down all my people
save it were twenty and four of us, (among whom was my son
Moroni) and we having survived the dead of our people, did behold
on the morrow, when the Lamanites had returned unto their camps,
from the top of the hill Cumorah, the ten thousand of my people
who were hewn down, being led in the front by me.

Mormon 6:12
 12 And we also beheld the ten thousand of my people who were led
by my son Moroni.

Mormon 6:13
 13 And behold, the ten thousand of Gidgiddonah had fallen, and
he also in the midst.

Mormon 6:14
 14 And Lamah had fallen with his ten thousand; and Gilgal had
fallen with his ten thousand; and Limhah had fallen with his ten
thousand; and Jeneum had fallen with his ten thousand; and
Cumenihah, and Moronihah, and Antionum, and Shiblom, and Shem,
and Josh, had fallen with their ten thousand each.

Mormon 6:15
 15 And it came to pass that there were ten more who did fall by
the sword, with their ten thousand each; yea, even all my people,
save it were those twenty and four who were with me, and also a
few who had escaped into the south countries, and a few who had
deserted over unto the Lamanites, had fallen; and their flesh,
and bones, and blood lay upon the face of the earth, being left
by the hands of those who slew them to molder upon the land, and
to crumble and to return to their mother earth.

Mormon 6:16
 16 And my soul was rent with anguish, because of the slain of my
people, and I cried:

Mormon 6:17
 17 O ye fair ones, how could ye have departed from the ways of
the Lord!  O ye fair ones, how could ye have rejected that Jesus,
who stood with open arms to receive you!

Mormon 6:18
 18 Behold, if ye had not done this, ye would not have fallen. 
But behold, ye are fallen, and I mourn your loss.

Mormon 6:19
 19 O ye fair sons and daughters, ye fathers and mothers, ye
husbands and wives, ye fair ones, how is it that ye could have
fallen!

Mormon 6:20
 20 But behold, ye are gone, and my sorrows cannot bring your
return.

Mormon 6:21
 21 And the day soon cometh that your mortal must put on
immortality, and these bodies which are now moldering in
corruption must soon become incorruptible bodies; and then ye
must stand before the judgment-seat of Christ to be judged
according to your works and if it so be that ye are righteous,
then are ye blessed with your fathers who have gone before you.

Mormon 6:22
 22 O that ye had repented before this great destruction had come
upon you.  But behold, ye are gone, and the Father, yea, the
Eternal Father of heaven, knoweth your state; and he doeth with
you according to his justice and mercy.

Mormon 7
Chapter 7

Mormon 7:1
 1 And now, behold, I would speak somewhat unto the remnant of
this people who are spared, if it so be that God may give unto
them my words, that they may know of the things of their fathers;
yea, I speak unto you, ye remnant of the house of Israel; and
these are the words which I speak:

Mormon 7:2
 2 Know ye that ye are of the house of Israel.

Mormon 7:3
 3 Know ye that ye must come unto repentance, or ye cannot be
saved.

Mormon 7:4
 4 Know ye that ye must lay down your weapons of war, and delight
no more in the shedding of blood, and take them not again, save
it be that God shall command you.

Mormon 7:5
 5 Know ye that ye must come to the knowledge of your fathers,
and repent of all your sins and iniquities, and believe in Jesus
Christ, that he is the Son of God, and that he was slain by the
Jews, and by the power of the Father he hath risen again, whereby
he hath gained the victory over the grave; and also in him is the
sting of death swallowed up.

Mormon 7:6
 6 And he bringeth to pass the resurrection of the dead, whereby
man must be raised to stand before his judgment-seat.

Mormon 7:7
 7 And he hath brought to pass the redemption of the world,
whereby he that is found guiltless before him at the judgment day
hath it given unto him to dwell in the presence of God in his
kingdom, to sing ceaseless praises with the choirs above, unto
the Father, and unto the Son, and unto the Holy Ghost, which are
one God, in a state of happiness which hath no end.

Mormon 7:8
 8 Therefore repent, and be baptized in the name of Jesus, and
lay hold upon the gospel of Christ, which shall be set before
you, not only in this record but also in the record which shall
come unto the Gentiles from the Jews, which record shall come
from the Gentiles unto you.

Mormon 7:9
 9 For behold, this is written for the intent that ye may believe
that; and if ye believe that ye will believe this also; and if ye
believe this ye will know concerning your fathers, and also the
marvelous works which were wrought by the power of God among
them.

Mormon 7:10
 10 And ye will also know that ye are a remnant of the seed of
Jacob; therefore ye are numbered among the people of the first
covenant; and if it so be that ye believe in Christ, and are
baptized, first with water, then with fire and with the Holy
Ghost, following the example of our Savior, according to that
which he hath commanded us, it shall be well with you in the day
of judgment.  Amen.

Mormon 8
Chapter 8

Mormon 8:1
 1 Behold I, Moroni, do finish the record of my father, Mormon. 
Behold, I have but few things to write, which things I have been
commanded by my father.

Mormon 8:2
 2 And now it came to pass that after the great and tremendous
battle at Cumorah, behold, the Nephites who had escaped into the
country southward were hunted by the Lamanites, until they were
all destroyed.

Mormon 8:3
 3 And my father also was killed by them, and I even remain alone
to write the sad tale of the destruction of my people.  But
behold, they are gone, and I fulfil the commandment of my father.

And whether they will slay me, I know not.

Mormon 8:4
 4 Therefore I will write and hide up the records in the earth;
and whither I go it mattereth not.

Mormon 8:5
 5 Behold, my father hath made this record, and he hath written
the intent thereof.  And behold, I would write it also if I had
room upon the plates, but I have not; and ore I have none, for I
am alone.  My father hath been slain in battle, and all my
kinsfolk, and I have not friends nor whither to go; and how long
the Lord will suffer that I may live I know not.

Mormon 8:6
 6 Behold, four hundred years have passed away since the coming
of our Lord and Savior.

Mormon 8:7
 7 And behold, the Lamanites have hunted my people, the Nephites,
down from city to city and from place to place, even until they
are no more; and great has been their fall; yea, great and
marvelous is the destruction of my people, the Nephites.

Mormon 8:8
 8 And behold, it is the hand of the Lord which hath done it. 
And behold also, the Lamanites are at war one with another; and
the whole face of this land is one continual round of murder and
bloodshed; and no one knoweth the end of the war.

Mormon 8:9
 9 And now, behold, I say no more concerning them, for there are
none save it be the Lamanites and robbers that do exist upon the
face of the land.

Mormon 8:10
 10 And there are none that do know the true God save it be the
disciples of Jesus, who did tarry in the land until the
wickedness of the people was so great that the Lord would not
suffer them to remain with the people; and whether they be upon
the face of the land no man knoweth.

Mormon 8:11
 11 But behold, my father and I have seen them, and they have
ministered unto us.

Mormon 8:12
 12 And whoso receiveth this record, and shall not condemn it
because of the imperfections which are in it, the same shall know
of greater things than these.  Behold, I am Moroni; and were it
possible, I would make all things known unto you.

Mormon 8:13
 13 Behold, I make an end of speaking concerning this people.  I
am the son of Mormon, and my father was a descendant of Nephi.

Mormon 8:14
 14 And I am the same who hideth up this record unto the Lord;
the plates thereof are of no worth, because of the commandment of
the Lord.  For he truly saith that no one shall have them to get
gain; but the record thereof is of great worth; and whoso shall
bring it to light, him will the Lord bless.

Mormon 8:15
 15 For none can have power to bring it to light save it be given
him of God; for God wills that it shall be done with an eye
single to his glory, or the welfare of the ancient and long
dispersed covenant people of the Lord.

Mormon 8:16
 16 And blessed be he that shall bring this thing to light; for
it shall be brought out of darkness unto light, according to the
word of God; yea, it shall be brought out of the earth, and it
shall shine forth out of darkness, and come unto the knowledge of
the people; and it shall be done by the power of God.

Mormon 8:17
 17 And if there be faults they be the faults of a man.  But
behold, we know no fault; nevertheless God knoweth all things;
therefore, he that condemneth, let him be aware lest he shall be
in danger of hell fire.

Mormon 8:18
 18 And he that saith: Show unto me, or ye shall be smitten--let
him beware lest he commandeth that which is forbidden of the
Lord.

Mormon 8:19
 19 For behold, the same that judgeth rashly shall be judged
rashly again; for according to his works shall his wages be;
therefore, he that smiteth shall be smitten again, of the Lord.

Mormon 8:20
 20 Behold what the scripture says--man shall not smite, neither
shall he judge; for judgment is mine, saith the Lord, and
vengeance is mine also, and I will repay.

Mormon 8:21
 21 And he that shall breathe out wrath and strifes against the
work of the Lord, and against the covenant people of the Lord who
are the house of Israel, and shall say: We will destroy the work
of the Lord, and the Lord will not remember his covenant which he
hath made unto the house of Israel--the same is in danger to be
hewn down and cast into the fire;

Mormon 8:22
 22 For the eternal purposes of the Lord shall roll on, until all
his promises shall be fulfilled.

Mormon 8:23
 23 Search the prophecies of Isaiah.  Behold, I cannot write
them.  Yea, behold I say unto you, that those saints who have
gone before me, who have possessed this land, shall cry, yea,
even from the dust will they cry unto the Lord; and as the Lord
liveth he will remember the covenant which he hath made with
them.

Mormon 8:24
 24 And he knoweth their prayers, that they were in behalf of
their brethren.  And he knoweth their faith, for in his name
could they remove mountains; and in his name could they cause the
earth to shake; and by the power of his word did they cause
prisons to tumble to the earth; yea, even the fiery furnace could
not harm them, neither wild beasts nor poisonous serpents,
because of the power of his word.

Mormon 8:25
 25 And behold, their prayers were also in behalf of him that the
Lord should suffer to bring these things forth.

Mormon 8:26
 26 And no one need say they shall not come, for they surely
shall, for the Lord hath spoken it; for out of the earth shall
they come, by the hand of the Lord, and none can stay it; and it
shall come in a day when it shall be said that miracles are done
away; and it shall come even as if one should speak from the
dead.

Mormon 8:27
 27 And it shall come in a day when the blood of saints shall cry
unto the Lord, because of secret combinations and the works of
darkness.

Mormon 8:28
 28 Yea, it shall come in a day when the power of God shall be
denied, and churches become defiled and be lifted up in the pride
of their hearts; yea, even in a day when leaders of churches and
teachers shall rise in the pride of their hearts, even to the
envying of them who belong to their churches.

Mormon 8:29
 29 Yea, it shall come in a day when there shall be heard of
fires, and tempests, and vapors of smoke in foreign lands;

Mormon 8:30
 30 And there shall also be heard of wars, rumors of wars, and
earthquakes in divers places.

Mormon 8:31
 31 Yea, it shall come in a day when there shall be great
pollutions upon the face of the earth; there shall be murders,
and robbing, and lying, and deceivings, and whoredoms, and all
manner of abominations; when there shall be many who will say, Do
this, or do that, and it mattereth not, for the Lord will uphold
such at the last day.  But wo unto such for they are in the gall
of bitterness and in the bonds of iniquity.

Mormon 8:32
 32 Yea, it shall come in a day when there shall be churches
built up that shall say: Come unto me, and for your money you
shall be forgiven of your sins.

Mormon 8:33
 33 O ye wicked and perverse and stiffnecked people, why have ye
built up churches unto yourselves to get gain?  Why have ye
transfigured the holy word of God, that ye might bring damnation
upon your souls?  Behold, look ye unto the revelations of God;
for behold, the time cometh at that day when all these things
must be fulfilled.

Mormon 8:34
 34 Behold, the Lord hath shown unto me great and marvelous
things concerning that which must shortly come, at that day when
these things shall come forth among you.

Mormon 8:35
 35 Behold, I speak unto you as if ye were present, and yet ye
are not.  But behold, Jesus Christ hath shown you unto me, and I
know your doing.

Mormon 8:36
 36 And I know that ye do walk in the pride of your hearts; and
there are none save a few only who do not lift themselves up in
the pride of their hearts, unto the wearing of very fine apparel,
unto envying, and strifes, and malice, and persecutions, and all
manner of iniquities; and your churches, yea, even every one,
have become polluted because of the pride of your hearts.

Mormon 8:37
 37 For behold, ye do love money, and your substance, and your
fine apparel, and the adorning of your churches, more than ye
love the poor and the needy, the sick and the afflicted.

Mormon 8:38
 38 O ye pollutions, ye hypocrites, ye teachers, who sell
yourselves for that which will canker, why have ye polluted the
holy church of God?  Why are ye ashamed to take upon you the name
of Christ?  Why do ye not think that greater is the value of an
endless happiness than that misery which never dies--because of
the praise of the world?

Mormon 8:39
 39 Why do ye adorn yourselves with that which hath no life, and
yet suffer the hungry, and the needy, and the naked, and the sick
and the afflicted to pass by you, and notice them not?

Mormon 8:40
 40 Yea, why do ye build up your secret abominations to get gain,
and cause that widows should mourn before the Lord, and also
orphans to mourn before the Lord, and also the blood of their
fathers and their husbands to cry unto the Lord from the ground,
for vengeance upon your heads?

Mormon 8:41
 41 Behold, the sword of vengeance hangeth over you; and the time
soon cometh that he avengeth the blood of the saints upon you,
for he will not suffer their cries any longer.

Mormon 9
Chapter 9

Mormon 9:1
 1 And now, I speak also concerning those who do not believe in
Christ.

Mormon 9:2
 2 Behold, will ye believe in the day of your visitation--behold,
when the Lord shall come, yea, even that great day when the earth
shall be rolled together as a scroll, and the elements shall melt
with fervent heat, yea, in that great day when ye shall be
brought to stand before the Lamb of God--then will ye say that
there is no God?

Mormon 9:3
 3 Then will ye longer deny the Christ, or can ye behold the Lamb
of God?  Do ye suppose that ye shall dwell with him under a
consciousness of your guilt?  Do ye suppose that ye could be
happy to dwell with that holy Being, when your souls are racked
with a consciousness of guilt that ye have ever abused his laws?

Mormon 9:4
 4 Behold, I say unto you that ye would be more miserable to
dwell with a holy and just God, under a consciousness of your
filthiness before him, than ye would to dwell with the damned
souls in hell.

Mormon 9:5
 5 For behold, when ye shall be brought to see your nakedness
before God, and also the glory of God, and the holiness of Jesus
Christ, it will kindle a flame of unquenchable fire upon you.

Mormon 9:6
 6 O then ye unbelieving, turn ye unto the Lord; cry mightily
unto the Father in the name of Jesus, that perhaps ye may be
found spotless, pure, fair, and white, having been cleansed by
the blood of the Lamb, at that great and last day.

Mormon 9:7
 7 And again I speak unto you who deny the revelations of God,
and say that they are done away, that there are no revelations,
nor prophecies, nor gifts, nor healing, nor speaking with
tongues, and the interpretation of tongues;

Mormon 9:8
 8 Behold I say unto you, he that denieth these things knoweth
not the gospel of Christ; yea, he has not read the scriptures; if
so, he does not understand them.

Mormon 9:9
 9 For do we not read that God is the same yesterday, today, and
forever, and in him there is no variableness neither shadow of
changing?

Mormon 9:10
 10 And now if ye have imagined up unto yourselves a god who doth
vary, and in whom there is shadow of changing, then have ye
imagined up unto yourselves a god who is not God of miracles.

Mormon 9:11
 11 But behold, I will show unto you a God of miracles, even the
God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob; and
it is that same God who created the heavens and the earth, and
all things that in them are.

Mormon 9:12
 12 Behold he created Adam, and by Adam came the fall of man. 
And because of the fall of man came Jesus Christ, even the Father
and the Son; and because of Jesus Christ came the redemption of
man.

Mormon 9:13
 13 And because of the redemption of man, which came by Jesus
Christ, they are brought back into the presence of the Lord; yea,
this is wherein all men are redeemed, because the death of Christ
bringeth to pass the resurrection, which bringeth to pass a
redemption from an endless sleep, from which sleep all men shall
be awakened by the power of God when the trump shall sound; and
they shall come forth, both small and great, and all shall stand
before his bar, being redeemed and loosed from this eternal band
of death, which death is a temporal death.

Mormon 9:14
 14 And then cometh the judgment of the Holy One upon them; and
then cometh the time that he that is filthy shall be filthy
still; and he that is righteous shall be righteous still; he that
is happy shall be happy still; and he that is unhappy shall be
unhappy still.

Mormon 9:15
 15 And now, O all ye that have imagined up unto yourselves a god
who can do no miracles, I would ask of you, have all these things
passed, of which I have spoken?  Has the end come yet?  Behold I
say unto you, Nay; and God has not ceased to be a God of
miracles.

Mormon 9:16
 16 Behold, are not the things that God hath wrought marvelous in
our eyes?  Yea, and who can comprehend the marvelous works of
God?

Mormon 9:17
 17 Who shall say that it was not a miracle that by his word the
heaven and the earth should be; and by the power of his word man
was created of the dust of the earth; and by the power of his
word have miracles been wrought?

Mormon 9:18
 18 And who shall say that Jesus Christ did not many mighty
miracles?  And there were many mighty miracles wrought by the
hands of the apostles.

Mormon 9:19
 19 And if there were miracles wrought then, why has God ceased
to be a God of miracles and yet be an unchangeable Being?  And
behold, I say unto you he changeth not; if so he would cease to
be God; and he ceaseth not to be God, and is a God of miracles.

Mormon 9:20
 20 And the reason why he ceaseth to do miracles among the
children of men is because that they dwindle in unbelief, and
depart from the right way, and know not the God in whom they
should trust.

Mormon 9:21
 21 Behold, I say unto you that whoso believeth in Christ,
doubting nothing, whatsoever he shall ask the Father in the name
of Christ it shall be granted him; and this promise is unto all,
even unto the ends of the earth.

Mormon 9:22
 22 For behold, thus said Jesus Christ, the Son of God, unto his
disciples who should tarry, yea, and also to all his disciples,
in the hearing of the multitude: Go ye into all the world, and
preach the gospel to every creature;

Mormon 9:23
 23 And he that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, but he
that believeth not shall be damned;

Mormon 9:24
 24 And these signs shall follow them that believe--in my name
shall they cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues;
they shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing
it shall not hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick and they
shall recover;

Mormon 9:25
 25 And whosoever shall believe in my name, doubting nothing,
unto him will I confirm all my words, even unto the ends of the
earth.

Mormon 9:26
 26 And now, behold, who can stand against the works of the Lord?

Who can deny his sayings?  Who will rise up against the almighty
power of the Lord?  Who will despise the works of the Lord?  Who
will despise the children of Christ?  Behold, all ye who are
despisers of the works of the Lord, for ye shall wonder and
perish.

Mormon 9:27
 27 O then despise not, and wonder not, but hearken unto the
words of the Lord, and ask the Father in the name of Jesus for
what things soever ye shall stand in need.  Doubt not, but be
believing, and begin as in times of old, and come unto the Lord
with all your heart, and work out your own salvation with fear
and trembling before him.

Mormon 9:28
 28 Be wise in the days of your probation; strip yourselves of
all uncleanness; ask not, that ye may consume it on your lusts,
but ask with a firmness unshaken, that ye will yield to no
temptation, but that ye will serve the true and living God.

Mormon 9:29
 29 See that ye are not baptized unworthily; see that ye partake
not of the sacrament of Christ unworthily; but see that ye do all
things in worthiness, and do it in the name of Jesus Christ, the
Son of the living God; and if ye do this, and endure to the end,
ye will in nowise be cast out.

Mormon 9:30
 30 Behold, I speak unto you as though I spake from the dead; for
I know that ye shall have my words.

Mormon 9:31
 31 Condemn me not because of mine imperfection, neither my
father, because of his imperfection, neither them who have
written before him; but rather give thanks unto God that he hath
made manifest unto you our imperfections, that ye may learn to be
more wise than we have been.

Mormon 9:32
 32 And now, behold, we have written this record according to our
knowledge, in the characters which are called among us the
reformed Egyptian, being handed down and altered by us, according
to our manner of speech.

Mormon 9:33
 33 And if our plates had been sufficiently large we should have
written in Hebrew; but the Hebrew hath been altered by us also;
and if we could have written in Hebrew, behold, ye would have had
no imperfection in our record.

Mormon 9:34
 34 But the Lord knoweth the things which we have written, and
also that none other people knoweth our language; and because
that none other people knoweth our language, therefore he hath
prepared means for the interpretation thereof.

Mormon 9:35
 35 And these things are written that we may rid our garments of
the blood of our brethren, who have dwindled in unbelief.

Mormon 9:36
 36 And behold, these things which we have desired concerning our
brethren, yea, even their restoration to the knowledge of Christ,
are according to the prayers of all the saints who have dwelt in
the land.

Mormon 9:37
 37 And may the Lord Jesus Christ grant that their prayers may be
answered according to their faith; and may God the Father
remember the covenant which he hath made with the house of
Israel; and may he bless them forever, through faith on the name
of Jesus Christ.  Amen.

Ether
THE BOOK OF ETHER
The record of the Jaredites, taken from the twenty-four plates
found by the people of Limhi in the days of king Mosiah.

Ether 1
Chapter 1

Ether 1:1
 1 And now I, Moroni, proceed to give an account of those ancient
inhabitants who were destroyed by the hand of the Lord upon the
face of this north country.

Ether 1:2
 2 And I take mine account from the twenty and four plates which
were found by the people of Limhi, which is called the Book of
Ether.

Ether 1:3
 3 And as I suppose that the first part of this record, which
speaks concerning the creation of the world, and also of Adam,
and an account from that time even to the great tower, and
whatsoever things transpired among the children of men until that
time, is had among the Jews--

Ether 1:4
 4 Therefore I do not write those things which transpired from
the days of Adam until that time; but they are had upon the
plates; and whoso findeth them, the same will have power that he
may get the full account.

Ether 1:5
 5 But behold, I give not the full account, but a part of the
account I give, from the tower down until they were destroyed.

Ether 1:6
 6 And on this wise do I give the account.  He that wrote this
record was Ether, and he was a descendant of Coriantor.

Ether 1:7
 7 Coriantor was the son of Moron.

Ether 1:8
 8 And Moron was the son of Ethem.

Ether 1:9
 9 And Ethem was the son of Ahah.

Ether 1:10
 10 And Ahah was the son of Seth.

Ether 1:11
 11 And Seth was the son of Shiblon.

Ether 1:12
 12 And Shiblon was the son of Com.

Ether 1:13
 13 And Com was the son of Coriantum.

Ether 1:14
 14 And Coriantum was the son of Amnigaddah.

Ether 1:15
 15 And Amnigaddah was the son of Aaron.

Ether 1:16
 16 And Aaron was a descendant of Heth, who was the son of
Hearthom.

Ether 1:17
 17 And Hearthom was the son of Lib.

Ether 1:18
 18 And Lib was the son of Kish.

Ether 1:19
 19 And Kish was the son of Corom.

Ether 1:20
 20 And Corom was the son of Levi.

Ether 1:21
 21 And Levi was the son of Kim.

Ether 1:22
 22 And Kim was the son of Morianton.

Ether 1:23
 23 And Morianton was a descendant of Riplakish.

Ether 1:24
 24 And Riplakish was the son of Shez.

Ether 1:25
 25 And Shez was the son of Heth.

Ether 1:26
 26 And Heth was the son of Com.

Ether 1:27
 27 And Com was the son of Coriantum.

Ether 1:28
 28 And Coriantum was the son of Emer.

Ether 1:29
 29 And Emer was the son of Omer.

Ether 1:30
 30 And Omer was the son of Shule.

Ether 1:31
 31 And Shule was the son of Kib.

Ether 1:32
 32 And Kib was the son of Orihah, who was the son of Jared;

Ether 1:33
 33 Which Jared came forth with his brother and their families,
with some others and their families, from the great tower, at the
time the Lord confounded the language of the people, and swore in
his wrath that they should be scattered upon all the face of the
earth; and according to the word of the Lord the people were
scattered.

Ether 1:34
 34 And the brother of Jared being a large and mighty man, and a
man highly favored of the Lord, Jared, his brother, said unto
him: Cry unto the Lord, that he will not confound us that we may
not understand our words.

Ether 1:35
 35 And it came to pass that the brother of Jared did cry unto
the Lord, and the Lord had compassion upon Jared; therefore he
did not confound the language of Jared; and Jared and his brother
were not confounded.

Ether 1:36
 36 Then Jared said unto his brother: Cry again unto the Lord,
and it may be that he will turn away his anger from them who are
our friends, that he confound not their language.

Ether 1:37
 37 And it came to pass that the brother of Jared did cry unto
the Lord, and the Lord had compassion upon their friends and
their families also, that they were not confounded.

Ether 1:38
 38 And it came to pass that Jared spake again unto his brother,
saying: Go and inquire of the Lord whether he will drive us out
of the land, and if he will drive us out of the land, cry unto
him whither we shall go.  And who knoweth but the Lord will carry
us forth into a land which is choice above all the earth?  And if
it so be, let us be faithful unto the Lord, that we may receive
it for our inheritance.

Ether 1:39
 39 And it came to pass that the brother of Jared did cry unto
the Lord according to that which had been spoken by the mouth of
Jared.

Ether 1:40
 40 And it came to pass that the Lord did hear the brother of
Jared, and had compassion upon him, and said unto him:

Ether 1:41
 41 Go to and gather together thy flocks, both male and female,
of every kind; and also of the seed of the earth of every kind;
and thy families; and also Jared thy brother and his family; and
also thy friends and their families, and the friends of Jared and
their families.

Ether 1:42
 42 And when thou hast done this thou shalt go at the head of
them down into the valley which is northward.  And there will I
meet thee, and I will go before thee into a land which is choice
above all the lands of the earth.

Ether 1:43
 43 And there will I bless thee and thy seed, and raise up unto
me of thy seed, and of the seed of thy brother, and they who
shall go with thee, a great nation.  And there shall be none
greater than the nation which I will raise up unto me of thy
seed, upon all the face of the earth.  And thus I will do unto
thee because this long time ye have cried unto me.

Ether 2
Chapter 2

Ether 2:1
 1 And it came to pass that Jared and his brother, and their
families, and also the friends of Jared and his brother and their
families, went down into the valley which was northward, (and the
name of the valley was Nimrod, being called after the mighty
hunter) with their flocks which they had gathered together, male
and female, of every kind.

Ether 2:2
 2 And they did also lay snares and catch fowls of the air; and
they did also prepare a vessel, in which they did carry with them
the fish of the waters.

Ether 2:3
 3 And they did also carry with them deseret, which, by
interpretation, is a honey bee; and thus they did carry with them
swarms of bees, and all manner of that which was upon the face of
the land, seeds of every kind.

Ether 2:4
 4 And it came to pass that when they had come down into the
valley of Nimrod the Lord came down and talked with the brother
of Jared; and he was in a cloud, and the brother of Jared saw him
not.

Ether 2:5
 5 And it came to pass that the Lord commanded them that they
should go forth into the wilderness, yea, into that quarter where
there never had man been.  And it came to pass that the Lord did
go before them, and did talk with them as he stood in a cloud,
and gave directions whither they should travel.

Ether 2:6
 6 And it came to pass that they did travel in the wilderness,
and did build barges, in which they did cross many waters, being
directed continually by the hand of the Lord.

Ether 2:7
 7 And the Lord would not suffer that they should stop beyond the
sea in the wilderness, but he would that they should come forth
even unto the land of promise, which was choice above all other
lands, which the Lord God had preserved for a righteous people.

Ether 2:8
 8 And he had sworn in his wrath unto the brother of Jared, that
whoso should possess this land of promise, from that time
henceforth and forever, should serve him, the true and only God,
or they should be swept off when the fulness of his wrath should
come upon them.

Ether 2:9
 9 And now, we can behold the decrees of God concerning this
land, that it is a land of promise; and whatsoever nation shall
possess it shall serve God, or they shall be swept off when the
fulness of his wrath shall come upon them.  And the fulness of
his wrath cometh upon them when they are ripened in iniquity.

Ether 2:10
 10 For behold, this is a land which is choice above all other
lands; wherefore he that doth possess it shall serve God or shall
be swept off; for it is the everlasting decree of God.  And it is
not until the fulness of iniquity among the children of the land,
that they are swept off.

Ether 2:11
 11 And this cometh unto you, O ye Gentiles, that ye may know the
decrees of God--that ye may repent, and not continue in your
iniquities until the fulness come, that ye may not bring down the
fulness of the wrath of God upon you as the inhabitants of the
land have hitherto done.

Ether 2:12
 12 Behold, this is a choice land, and whatsoever nation shall
possess it shall be free from bondage, and from captivity, and
from all other nations under heaven, if they will but serve the
God of the land, who is Jesus Christ, who hath been manifested by
the things which we have written.

Ether 2:13
 13 And now I proceed with my record; for behold, it came to pass
that the Lord did bring Jared and his brethren forth even to that
great sea which divideth the lands.  And as they came to the sea
they pitched their tents; and they called the name of the place
Moriancumer; and they dwelt in tents, and dwelt in tents upon the
seashore for the space of four years.

Ether 2:14
 14 And it came to pass at the end of four years that the Lord
came again unto the brother of Jared, and stood in a cloud and
talked with him.  And for the space of three hours did the Lord
talk with the brother of Jared, and chastened him because he
remembered not to call upon the name of the Lord.

Ether 2:15
 15 And the brother of Jared repented of the evil which he had
done, and did call upon the name of the Lord for his brethren who
were with him.  And the Lord said unto him: I will forgive thee
and thy brethren of their sins; but thou shalt not sin any more,
for ye shall remember that my Spirit will not always strive with
man; wherefore, if ye will sin until ye are fully ripe ye shall
be cut off from the presence of the Lord.  And these are my
thoughts upon the land which I shall give you for your
inheritance; for it shall be a land choice above all other lands.

Ether 2:16
 16 And the Lord said: Go to work and build, after the manner of
barges which ye have hitherto built.  And it came to pass that
the brother of Jared did go to work, and also his brethren, and
built barges after the manner which they had built, according to
the instructions of the Lord.  And they were small, and they were
light upon the water, even like unto the lightness of a fowl upon
the water.

Ether 2:17
 17 And they were built after a manner that they were exceedingly
tight, even that they would hold water like unto a dish; and the
bottom thereof was tight like unto a dish; and the sides thereof
were tight like unto a dish; and the ends thereof were peaked;
and the top thereof was tight like unto a dish; and the length
thereof was the length of a tree; and the door thereof, when it
was shut, was tight like unto a dish.

Ether 2:18
 18 And it came to pass that the brother of Jared cried unto the
Lord, saying: O Lord, I have performed the work which thou hast
commanded me, and I have made the barges according as thou hast
directed me.

Ether 2:19
 19 And behold, O Lord, in them there is no light; whither shall
we steer?  And also we shall perish, for in them we cannot
breathe, save it is the air which is in them; therefore we shall
perish.

Ether 2:20
 20 And the Lord said unto the brother of Jared: Behold, thou
shalt make a hole in the top, and also in the bottom; and when
thou shalt suffer for air thou shalt unstop the hole and receive
air.  And if it be so that the water come in upon thee, behold,
ye shall stop the hole, that ye may not perish in the flood.

Ether 2:21
 21 And it came to pass that the brother of Jared did so,
according as the Lord had commanded.

Ether 2:22
 22 And he cried again unto the Lord saying: O Lord, behold I
have done even as thou hast commanded me; and I have prepared the
vessels for my people, and behold there is no light in them. 
Behold, O Lord, wilt thou suffer that we shall cross this great
water in darkness?

Ether 2:23
 23 And the Lord said unto the brother of Jared: What will ye
that I should do that ye may have light in your vessels?  For
behold, ye cannot have windows, for they will be dashed in
pieces; neither shall ye take fire with you, for ye shall not go
by the light of fire.

Ether 2:24
 24 For behold, ye shall be as a whale in the midst of the sea;
for the mountain waves shall dash upon you.  Nevertheless, I will
bring you up again out of the depths of the sea; for the winds
have gone forth out of my mouth, and also the rains and the
floods have I sent forth.

Ether 2:25
 25 And behold, I prepare you against these things; for ye cannot
cross this great deep save I prepare you against the waves of the
sea, and the winds which have gone forth, and the floods which
shall come.  Therefore what will ye that I should prepare for you
that ye may have light when ye are swallowed up in the depths of
the sea?

Ether 3
Chapter 3

Ether 3:1
 1 And it came to pass that the brother of Jared, (now the number
of the vessels which had been prepared was eight) went forth unto
the mount, which they called the mount Shelem, because of its
exceeding height, and did molten out of a rock sixteen small
stones; and they were white and clear, even as transparent glass;
and he did carry them in his hands upon the top of the mount, and
cried again unto the Lord, saying:

Ether 3:2
 2 O Lord, thou hast said that we must be encompassed about by
the floods.  Now behold, O Lord, and do not be angry with thy
servant because of his weakness before thee; for we know that
thou art holy and dwellest in the heavens, and that we are
unworthy before thee; because of the fall our natures have become
evil continually; nevertheless, O Lord, thou hast given us a
commandment that we must call upon thee, that from thee we may
receive according to our desires.

Ether 3:3
 3 Behold, O Lord, thou hast smitten us because of our iniquity,
and hast driven us forth, and for these many years we have been
in the wilderness; nevertheless, thou hast been merciful unto us.

O Lord, look upon me in pity, and turn away thine anger from this
thy people, and suffer not that they shall go forth across this
raging deep in darkness; but behold these things which I have
molten out of the rock.

Ether 3:4
 4 And I know, O Lord, that thou hast all power, and can do
whatsoever thou wilt for the benefit of man; therefore touch
these stones, O Lord, with thy finger, and prepare them that they
may shine forth in darkness; and they shall shine forth unto us
in the vessels which we have prepared, that we may have light
while we shall cross the sea.

Ether 3:5
 5 Behold, O Lord, thou canst do this.  We know that thou art
able to show forth great power, which looks small unto the
understanding of men.

Ether 3:6
 6 And it came to pass that when the brother of Jared had said
these words, behold, the Lord stretched forth his hand and
touched the stones one by one with his finger.  And the veil was
taken from off the eyes of the brother of Jared, and he saw the
finger of the Lord; and it was as the finger of a man, like unto
flesh and blood; and the brother of Jared fell down before the
Lord, for he was struck with fear.

Ether 3:7
 7 And the Lord saw that the brother of Jared had fallen to the
earth; and the Lord said unto him: Arise, why hast thou fallen?

Ether 3:8
 8 And he saith unto the Lord: I saw the finger of the Lord, and
I feared lest he should smite me; for I knew not that the Lord
had flesh and blood.

Ether 3:9
 9 And the Lord said unto him: Because of thy faith thou hast
seen that I shall take upon me flesh and blood; and never has man
come before me with such exceeding faith as thou hast; for were
it not so ye could not have seen my finger.  Sawest thou more
than this?

Ether 3:10
 10 And he answered: Nay; Lord, show thyself unto me.

Ether 3:11
 11 And the Lord said unto him: Believest thou the words which I
shall speak?

Ether 3:12
 12 And he answered: Yea, Lord, I know that thou speakest the
truth, for thou art a God of truth, and canst not lie.

Ether 3:13
 13 And when he had said these words, behold, the Lord showed
himself unto him, and said: Because thou knowest these things ye
are redeemed from the fall; therefore ye are brought back into my
presence; therefore I show myself unto you.

Ether 3:14
 14 Behold, I am he who was prepared from the foundation of the
world to redeem my people.  Behold, I am Jesus Christ.  I am the
Father and the Son.  In me shall all mankind have life, and that
eternally, even they who shall believe on my name; and they shall
become my sons and my daughters.

Ether 3:15
 15 And never have I showed myself unto man whom I have created,
for never has man believed in me as thou hast.  Seest thou that
ye are created after mine own image?  Yea, even all men were
created in the beginning after mine own image.

Ether 3:16
 16 Behold, this body, which ye now behold, is the body of my
spirit; and man have I created after the body of my spirit; and
even as I appear unto thee to be in the spirit will I appear unto
my people in the flesh.

Ether 3:17
 17 And now, as I, Moroni, said I could not make a full account
of these things which are written therefore it sufficeth me to
say that Jesus showed himself unto this man in the spirit, even
after the manner and in the likeness of the same body even as he
showed himself unto the Nephites.

Ether 3:18
 18 And he ministered unto him even as he ministered unto the
Nephites; and all this, that this man might know that he was God,
because of the many great works which the Lord had showed unto
him.

Ether 3:19
 19 And because of the knowledge of this man he could not be kept
from beholding within the veil; and he saw the finger of Jesus,
which, when he saw, he fell with fear; for he knew that it was
the finger of the Lord; and he had faith no longer, for he knew,
nothing doubting.

Ether 3:20
 20 Wherefore, having this perfect knowledge of God, he could not
be kept from within the veil; therefore he saw Jesus; and he did
minister unto him.

Ether 3:21
 21 And it came to pass that the Lord said unto the brother of
Jared: Behold, thou shalt not suffer these things which ye have
seen and heard to go forth unto the world, until the time cometh
that I shall glorify my name in the flesh; wherefore, ye shall
treasure up the things which ye have seen and heard, and show it
to no man.

Ether 3:22
 22 And behold, when ye shall come unto me, ye shall write them
and shall seal them up, that no one can interpret them; for ye
shall write them in a language that they cannot be read.

Ether 3:23
 23 And behold, these two stones will I give unto thee, and ye
shall seal them up also with the things which ye shall write.

Ether 3:24
 24 For behold, the language which ye shall write I have
confounded; wherefore I will cause in my own due time that these
stones shall magnify to the eyes of men these things which ye
shall write.

Ether 3:25
 25 And when the Lord had said these words, he showed unto the
brother of Jared all the inhabitants of the earth which had been,
and also all that would be; and he withheld them not from his
sight, even unto the ends of the earth.

Ether 3:26
 26 For he had said unto him in times before, that if he would
believe in him that he could show unto him all things--it should
be shown unto him; therefore the Lord could not withhold anything
from him, for he knew that the Lord could show him all things.

Ether 3:27
 27 And the Lord said unto him: Write these things and seal them
up; and I will show them in mine own due time unto the children
of men.

Ether 3:28
 28 And it came to pass that the Lord commanded him that he
should seal up the two stones which he had received, and show
them not, until the Lord should show them unto the children of
men.

Ether 4
Chapter 4

Ether 4:1
 1 And the Lord commanded the brother of Jared to go down out of
the mount from the presence of the Lord, and write the things
which he had seen; and they were forbidden to come unto the
children of men until after that he should be lifted up upon the
cross; and for this cause did king Mosiah keep them, that they
should not come unto the world until after Christ should show
himself unto his people.

Ether 4:2
 2 And after Christ truly had showed himself unto his people he
commanded that they should be made manifest.

Ether 4:3
 3 And now, after that, they have all dwindled in unbelief; and
there is none save it be the Lamanites, and they have rejected
the gospel of Christ; therefore I am commanded that I should hide
them up again in the earth.

Ether 4:4
 4 Behold, I have written upon these plates the very things which
the brother of Jared saw; and there never were greater things
made manifest than those which were made manifest unto the
brother of Jared.

Ether 4:5
 5 Wherefore the Lord hath commanded me to write them; and I have
written them.  And he commanded me that I should seal them up;
and he also hath commanded that I should seal up the
interpretation thereof; wherefore I have sealed up the
interpreters, according to the commandment of the Lord.

Ether 4:6
 6 For the Lord said unto me: They shall not go forth unto the
Gentiles until the day that they shall repent of their iniquity,
and become clean before the Lord.

Ether 4:7
 7 And in that day that they shall exercise faith in me, saith
the Lord, even as the brother of Jared did, that they may become
sanctified in me, then will I manifest unto them the things which
the brother of Jared saw, even to the unfolding unto them all my
revelations, saith Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Father of
the heavens and of the earth, and all things that in them are.

Ether 4:8
 8 And he that will contend against the word of the Lord, let him
be accursed; and he that shall deny these things, let him be
accursed; for unto them will I show no greater things, saith
Jesus Christ; for I am he who speaketh.

Ether 4:9
 9 And at my command the heavens are opened and are shut; and at
my word the earth shall shake; and at my command the inhabitants
thereof shall pass away, even so as by fire.

Ether 4:10
 10 And he that believeth not my words believeth not my
disciples; and if it so be that I do not speak, judge ye; for ye
shall know that it is I that speaketh, at the last day.

Ether 4:11
 11 But he that believeth these things which I have spoken, him
will I visit with the manifestations of my Spirit, and he shall
know and bear record.  For because of my Spirit he shall know
that these things are true; for it persuadeth men to do good.

Ether 4:12
 12 And whatsoever thing persuadeth men to do good is of me; for
good cometh of none save it be of me.  I am the same that leadeth
men to all good; he that will not believe my words will not
believe me--that I am; and he that will not believe me will not
believe the Father who sent me.  For behold, I am the Father, I
am the light, and the life, and the truth of the world.

Ether 4:13
 13 Come unto me, O ye Gentiles, and I will show unto you the
greater things, the knowledge which is hid up because of
unbelief.

Ether 4:14
 14 Come unto me, O ye house of Israel, and it shall be made
manifest unto you how great things the Father hath laid up for
you, from the foundation of the world; and it hath not come unto
you, because of unbelief.

Ether 4:15
 15 Behold, when ye shall rend that veil of unbelief which doth
cause you to remain in your awful state of wickedness, and
hardness of heart, and blindness of mind, then shall the great
and marvelous things which have been hid up from the foundation
of the world from you--yea, when ye shall call upon the Father in
my name, with a broken heart and a contrite spirit, then shall ye
know that the Father hath remembered the covenant which he made
unto your fathers, O house of Israel.

Ether 4:16
 16 And then shall my revelations which I have caused to be
written by my servant John be unfolded in the eyes of all the
people.  Remember, when ye see these things, ye shall know that
the time is at hand that they shall be made manifest in very
deed.

Ether 4:17
 17 Therefore, when ye shall receive this record ye may know that
the work of the Father has commenced upon all the face of the
land.

Ether 4:18
 18 Therefore, repent all ye ends of the earth, and come unto me,
and believe in my gospel, and be baptized in my name; for he that
believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth
not shall be damned; and signs shall follow them that believe in
my name.

Ether 4:19
 19 And blessed is he that is found faithful unto my name at the
last day, for he shall be lifted up to dwell in the kingdom
prepared for him from the foundation of the world.  And behold it
is I that hath spoken it.  Amen.

Ether 5
Chapter 5

Ether 5:1
 1 And now I, Moroni, have written the words which were commanded
me, according to my memory; and I have told you the things which
I have sealed up; therefore touch them not in order that ye may
translate; for that thing is forbidden you, except by and by it
shall be wisdom in God.

Ether 5:2
 2 And behold, ye may be privileged that ye may show the plates
unto those who shall assist to bring forth this work;

Ether 5:3
 3 And unto three shall they be shown by the power of God;
wherefore they shall know of a surety that these things are true.

Ether 5:4
 4 And in the mouth of three witnesses shall these things be
established; and the testimony of three, and this work, in the
which shall be shown forth the power of God and also his word, of
which the Father, and the Son, and the Holy Ghost bear
record--and all this shall stand as a testimony against the world
at the last day.

Ether 5:5
 5 And if it so be that they repent and come unto the Father in
the name of Jesus, they shall be received into the kingdom of
God.

Ether 5:6
 6 And now, if I have no authority for these things, judge ye;
for ye shall know that I have authority when ye shall see me, and
we shall stand before God at the last day.  Amen.

Ether 6
Chapter 6

Ether 6:1
 1 And now I, Moroni, proceed to give the record of Jared and his
brother.

Ether 6:2
 2 For it came to pass after the Lord had prepared the stones
which the brother of Jared had carried up into the mount, the
brother of Jared came down out of the mount, and he did put forth
the stones into the vessels which were prepared, one in each end
thereof; and behold, they did give light unto the vessels.

Ether 6:3
 3 And thus the Lord caused stones to shine in darkness, to give
light unto men, women, and children, that they might not cross
the great waters in darkness.

Ether 6:4
 4 And it came to pass that when they had prepared all manner of
food, that thereby they might subsist upon the water, and also
food for their flocks and herds, and whatsoever beast or animal
or fowl that they should carry with them--and it came to pass
that when they had done all these things they got aboard of their
vessels or barges, and set forth into the sea, commending
themselves unto the Lord their God.

Ether 6:5
 5 And it came to pass that the Lord God caused that there should
be a furious wind blow upon the face of the waters, towards the
promised land; and thus they were tossed upon the waves of the
sea before the wind.

Ether 6:6
 6 And it came to pass that they were many times buried in the
depths of the sea, because of the mountain waves which broke upon
them, and also the great and terrible tempests which were caused
by the fierceness of the wind.

Ether 6:7
 7 And it came to pass that when they were buried in the deep
there was no water that could hurt them, their vessels being
tight like unto a dish, and also they were tight like unto the
ark of Noah; therefore when they were encompassed about by many
waters they did cry unto the Lord, and he did bring them forth
again upon the top of the waters.

Ether 6:8
 8 And it came to pass that the wind did never cease to blow
towards the promised land while they were upon the waters; and
thus they were driven forth before the wind.

Ether 6:9
 9 And they did sing praises unto the Lord; yea, the brother of
Jared did sing praises unto the Lord, and he did thank and praise
the Lord all the day long; and when the night came, they did not
cease to praise the Lord.

Ether 6:10
 10 And thus they were driven forth; and no monster of the sea
could break them, neither whale that could mar them; and they did
have light continually, whether it was above the water or under
the water.

Ether 6:11
 11 And thus they were driven forth, three hundred and forty and
four days upon the water.

Ether 6:12
 12 And they did land upon the shore of the promised land.  And
when they had set their feet upon the shores of the promised land
they bowed themselves down upon the face of the land, and did
humble themselves before the Lord, and did shed tears of joy
before the Lord, because of the multitude of his tender mercies
over them.

Ether 6:13
 13 And it came to pass that they went forth upon the face of the
land, and began to till the earth.

Ether 6:14
 14 And Jared had four sons; and they were called Jacom, and
Gilgah, and Mahah, and Orihah.

Ether 6:15
 15 And the brother of Jared also begat sons and daughters.

Ether 6:16
 16 And the friends of Jared and his brother were in number about
twenty and two souls; and they also begat sons and daughters
before they came to the promised land; and therefore they began
to be many.

Ether 6:17
 17 And they were taught to walk humbly before the Lord; and they
were also taught from on high.

Ether 6:18
 18 And it came to pass that they began to spread upon the face
of the land, and to multiply and to till the earth; and they did
wax strong in the land.

Ether 6:19
 19 And the brother of Jared began to be old, and saw that he
must soon go down to the grave; wherefore he said unto Jared: Let
us gather together our people that we may number them, that we
may know of them what they will desire of us before we go down to
our graves.

Ether 6:20
 20 And accordingly the people were gathered together.  Now the
number of the sons and the daughters of the brother of Jared were
twenty and two souls; and the number of sons and daughters of
Jared were twelve, he having four sons.

Ether 6:21
 21 And it came to pass that they did number their people; and
after that they had numbered them, they did desire of them the
things which they would that they should do before they went down
to their graves.

Ether 6:22
 22 And it came to pass that the people desired of them that they
should anoint one of their sons to be a king over them.

Ether 6:23
 23 And now behold, this was grievous unto them.  And the brother
of Jared said unto them: Surely this thing leadeth into
captivity.

Ether 6:24
 24 But Jared said unto his brother: Suffer them that they may
have a king.  And therefore he said unto them: Choose ye out from
among our sons a king, even whom ye will.

Ether 6:25
 25 And it came to pass that they chose even the firstborn of the
brother of Jared; and his name was Pagag.  And it came to pass
that he refused and would not be their king.  And the people
would that his father should constrain him, but his father would
not; and he commanded them that they should constrain no man to
be their king.

Ether 6:26
 26 And it came to pass that they chose all the brothers of
Pagag, and they would not.

Ether 6:27
 27 And it came to pass that neither would the sons of Jared,
even all save it were one; and Orihah was anointed to be king
over the people.

Ether 6:28
 28 And he began to reign, and the people began to prosper; and
they became exceedingly rich.

Ether 6:29
 29 And it came to pass that Jared died, and his brother also.

Ether 6:30
 30 And it came to pass that Orihah did walk humbly before the
Lord, and did remember how great things the Lord had done for his
father, and also taught his people how great things the Lord had
done for their fathers.

Ether 7
Chapter 7

Ether 7:1
 1 And it came to pass that Orihah did execute judgment upon the
land in righteousness all his days, whose days were exceedingly
many.

Ether 7:2
 2 And he begat sons and daughters; yea, he begat thirty and one,
among whom were twenty and three sons.

Ether 7:3
 3 And it came to pass that he also begat Kib in his old age. 
And it came to pass that Kib reigned in his stead; and Kib begat
Corihor.

Ether 7:4
 4 And when Corihor was thirty and two years old he rebelled
against his father, and went over and dwelt in the land of Nehor;
and he begat sons and daughters, and they became exceedingly
fair; wherefore Corihor drew away many people after him.

Ether 7:5
 5 And when he had gathered together an army he came up unto the
land of Moron where the king dwelt, and took him captive, which
brought to pass the saying of the brother of Jared that they
would be brought into captivity.

Ether 7:6
 6 Now the land of Moron, where the king dwelt, was near the land
which is called Desolation by the Nephites.

Ether 7:7
 7 And it came to pass that Kib dwelt in captivity, and his
people under Corihor his son, until he became exceedingly old;
nevertheless Kib begat Shule in his old age, while he was yet in
captivity.

Ether 7:8
 8 And it came to pass that Shule was angry with his brother; and
Shule waxed strong, and became mighty as to the strength of a
man; and he was also mighty in judgment.

Ether 7:9
 9 Wherefore, he came to the hill Ephraim, and he did molten out
of the hill, and made swords out of steel for those whom he had
drawn away with him; and after he had armed them with swords he
returned to the city Nehor and gave battle unto his brother
Corihor, by which means he obtained the kingdom and restored it
unto his father Kib.

Ether 7:10
 10 And now because of the thing which Shule had done, his father
bestowed upon him the kingdom; therefore he began to reign in the
stead of his father.

Ether 7:11
 11 And it came to pass that he did execute judgment in
righteousness; and he did spread his kingdom upon all the face of
the land, for the people had become exceedingly numerous.

Ether 7:12
 12 And it came to pass that Shule also begat many sons and
daughters.

Ether 7:13
 13 And Corihor repented of the many evils which he had done;
wherefore Shule gave him power in his kingdom.

Ether 7:14
 14 And it came to pass that Corihor had many sons and daughters.

And among the sons of Corihor there was one whose name was Noah.

Ether 7:15
 15 And it came to pass that Noah rebelled against Shule, the
king, and also his father Corihor, and drew away Cohor his
brother, and also all his brethren and many of the people.

Ether 7:16
 16 And he gave battle unto Shule the king, in which he did
obtain the land of their first inheritance; and he became a king
over that part of the land.

Ether 7:17
 17 And it came to pass that he gave battle again unto Shule, the
king; and he took Shule, the king, and carried him away captive
into Moron.

Ether 7:18
 18 And it came to pass as he was about to put him to death, the
sons of Shule crept into the house of Noah by night and slew him,
and broke down the door of the prison and brought out their
father, and placed him upon his throne in his own kingdom.

Ether 7:19
 19 Wherefore, the son of Noah did build up his kingdom in his
stead; nevertheless they did not gain power any more over Shule
the king, and the people who were under the reign of Shule the
king did prosper exceedingly and wax great.

Ether 7:20
 20 And the country was divided; and there were two kingdoms, the
kingdom of Shule, and the kingdom of Cohor, the son of Noah.

Ether 7:21
 21 And Cohor, the son of Noah, caused that his people should
give battle unto Shule, in which Shule did beat them and did slay
Cohor.

Ether 7:22
 22 And now Cohor had a son who was called Nimrod; and Nimrod
gave up the kingdom of Cohor unto Shule, and he did gain favor in
the eyes of Shule; wherefore Shule did bestow great favors upon
him, and he did do in the kingdom of Shule according to his
desires.

Ether 7:23
 23 And also in the reign of Shule there came prophets among the
people, who were sent from the Lord, prophesying that the
wickedness and idolatry of the people was bringing a curse upon
the land, and they should be destroyed if they did not repent.

Ether 7:24
 24 And it came to pass that the people did revile against the
prophets, and did mock them.  And it came to pass that king Shule
did execute judgment against all those who did revile against the
prophets.

Ether 7:25
 25 And he did execute a law throughout all the land, which gave
power unto the prophets that they should go whithersoever they
would; and by this cause the people were brought unto repentance.

Ether 7:26
 26 And because the people did repent of their iniquities and
idolatries the Lord did spare them, and they began to prosper
again in the land.  And it came to pass that Shule begat sons and
daughters in his old age.

Ether 7:27
 27 And there were no more wars in the days of Shule; and he
remembered the great things that the Lord had done for his
fathers in bringing them across the great deep into the promised
land; wherefore he did execute judgment in righteousness all his
days.

Ether 8
Chapter 8

Ether 8:1
 1 And it came to pass that he begat Omer, and Omer reigned in
his stead.  And Omer begat Jared; and Jared begat sons and
daughters.

Ether 8:2
 2 And Jared rebelled against his father, and came and dwelt in
the land of Heth.  And it came to pass that he did flatter many
people, because of his cunning words, until he had gained the
half of the kingdom.

Ether 8:3
 3 And when he had gained the half of the kingdom he gave battle
unto his father, and he did carry away his father into captivity,
and did make him serve in captivity;

Ether 8:4
 4 And now, in the days of the reigns of Omer he was in captivity
the half of his days.  And it came to pass that he begat sons and
daughters among whom were Esrom and Coriantumr;

Ether 8:5
 5 And they were exceedingly angry because of the doings of Jared
their brother, insomuch that they did raise an army and gave
battle unto Jared.  And it came to pass that they did give battle
unto him by night.

Ether 8:6
 6 And it came to pass that when they had slain the army of Jared
they were about to slay him also; and he plead with them that
they would not slay him, and he would give up the kingdom unto
his father.  And it came to pass that they did grant unto him his
life.

Ether 8:7
 7 And now Jared became exceedingly sorrowful because of the loss
of the kingdom, for he had set his heart upon the kingdom and
upon the glory of the world.

Ether 8:8
 8 Now the daughter of Jared being exceedingly expert, and seeing
the sorrows of her father, thought to devise a plan whereby she
could redeem the kingdom unto her father.

Ether 8:9
 9 Now the daughter of Jared was exceedingly fair.  And it came
to pass that she did talk with her father, and said unto him:
Whereby hath my father so much sorrow?  Hath he not read the
record which our fathers brought across the great deep?  Behold,
is there not an account concerning them of old, that they by
their secret plans did obtain kingdoms and great glory?

Ether 8:10
 10 And now, therefore, let my father send for Akish, the son of
Kimnor; and behold, I am fair, and I will dance before him, and I
will please him, that he will desire me to wife; wherefore if he
shall desire of thee that ye shall give unto him me to wife, then
shall ye say: I will give her if ye will bring unto me the head
of my father, the king.

Ether 8:11
 11 And now Omer was a friend to Akish; wherefore, when Jared had
sent for Akish, the daughter of Jared danced before him that she
pleased him, insomuch that he desired her to wife.  And it came
to pass that he said unto Jared: Give her unto me to wife.

Ether 8:12
 12 And Jared said unto him: I will give her unto you, if ye will
bring unto me the head of my father, the king.

Ether 8:13
 13 And it came to pass that Akish gathered in unto the house of
Jared all his kinsfolk, and said unto them: Will ye swear unto me
that ye will be faithful unto me in the thing which I shall
desire of you?

Ether 8:14
 14 And it came to pass that they all sware unto him, by the God
of heaven, and also by the heavens, and also by the earth, and by
their heads, that whoso should vary from the assistance which
Akish desired should lose his head; and whoso should divulge
whatsoever thing Akish made known unto them, the same should lose
his life.

Ether 8:15
 15 And it came to pass that thus they did agree with Akish.  And
Akish did administer unto them the oaths which were given by them
of old who also sought power, which had been handed down even
from Cain, who was a murderer from the beginning.

Ether 8:16
 16 And they were kept up by the power of the devil to administer
these oaths unto the people, to keep them in darkness, to help
such as sought power to gain power, and to murder, and to
plunder, and to lie, and to commit all manner of wickedness and
whoredoms.

Ether 8:17
 17 And it was the daughter of Jared who put it into his heart to
search up these things of old; and Jared put it into the heart of
Akish; wherefore, Akish administered it unto his kindred and
friends, leading them away by fair promises to do whatsoever
thing he desired.

Ether 8:18
 18 And it came to pass that they formed a secret combination,
even as they of old; which combination is most abominable and
wicked above all, in the sight of God;

Ether 8:19
 19 For the Lord worketh not in secret combinations, neither doth
he will that man should shed blood, but in all things hath
forbidden it, from the beginning of man.

Ether 8:20
 20 And now I, Moroni, do not write the manner of their oaths and
combinations, for it hath been made known unto me that they are
had among all people, and they are had among the Lamanites.

Ether 8:21
 21 And they have caused the destruction of this people of whom I
am now speaking, and also the destruction of the people of Nephi.

Ether 8:22
 22 And whatsoever nation shall uphold such secret combinations,
to get power and gain, until they shall spread over the nation,
behold, they shall be destroyed; for the Lord will not suffer
that the blood of his saints, which shall be shed by them, shall
always cry unto him from the ground for vengeance upon them and
yet he avenge them not.

Ether 8:23
 23 Wherefore, O ye Gentiles, it is wisdom in God that these
things should be shown unto you, that thereby ye may repent of
your sins, and suffer not that these murderous combinations shall
get above you, which are built up to get power and gain--and the
work, yea, even the work of destruction come upon you, yea, even
the sword of the justice of the Eternal God shall fall upon you,
to your overthrow and destruction if ye shall suffer these things
to be.

Ether 8:24
 24 Wherefore, the Lord commandeth you, when ye shall see these
things come among you that ye shall awake to a sense of your
awful situation, because of this secret combination which shall
be among you; or wo be unto it, because of the blood of them who
have been slain; for they cry from the dust for vengeance upon
it, and also upon those who built it up.

Ether 8:25
 25 For it cometh to pass that whoso buildeth it up seeketh to
overthrow the freedom of all lands, nations, and countries; and
it bringeth to pass the destruction of all people, for it is
built up by the devil, who is the father of all lies; even that
same liar who beguiled our first parents, yea, even that same
liar who hath caused man to commit murder from the beginning; who
hath hardened the hearts of men that they have murdered the
prophets, and stoned them, and cast them out from the beginning.

Ether 8:26
 26 Wherefore, I, Moroni, am commanded to write these things that
evil may be done away, and that the time may come that Satan may
have no power upon the hearts of the children of men, but that
they may be persuaded to do good continually, that they may come
unto the fountain of all righteousness and be saved.

Ether 9
Chapter 9

Ether 9:1
 1 And now I, Moroni, proceed with my record.  Therefore, behold,
it came to pass that because of the secret combinations of Akish
and his friends, behold, they did overthrow the kingdom of Omer.

Ether 9:2
 2 Nevertheless, the Lord was merciful unto Omer, and also to his
sons and to his daughters who did not seek his destruction.

Ether 9:3
 3 And the Lord warned Omer in a dream that he should depart out
of the land; wherefore Omer departed out of the land with his
family, and traveled many days, and came over and passed by the
hill of Shim, and came over by the place where the Nephites were
destroyed, and from thence eastward, and came to a place which
was called Ablom, by the seashore, and there he pitched his tent,
and also his sons and his daughters, and all his household, save
it were Jared and his family.

Ether 9:4
 4 And it came to pass that Jared was anointed king over the
people, by the hand of wickedness; and he gave unto Akish his
daughter to wife.

Ether 9:5
 5 And it came to pass that Akish sought the life of his
father-in-law; and he applied unto those whom he had sworn by the
oath of the ancients, and they obtained the head of his
father-in-law, as he sat upon his throne, giving audience to his
people.

Ether 9:6
 6 For so great had been the spreading of this wicked and secret
society that it had corrupted the hearts of all the people;
therefore Jared was murdered upon his throne, and Akish reigned
in his stead.

Ether 9:7
 7 And it came to pass that Akish began to be jealous of his son,
therefore he shut him up in prison, and kept him upon little or
no food until he had suffered death.

Ether 9:8
 8 And now the brother of him that suffered death, (and his name
was Nimrah) was angry with his father because of that which his
father had done unto his brother.

Ether 9:9
 9 And it came to pass that Nimrah gathered together a small
number of men, and fled out of the land, and came over and dwelt
with Omer.

Ether 9:10
 10 And it came to pass that Akish begat other sons, and they won
the hearts of the people, notwithstanding they had sworn unto him
to do all manner of iniquity according to that which he desired.

Ether 9:11
 11 Now the people of Akish were desirous for gain, even as Akish
was desirous for power; wherefore, the sons of Akish did offer
them money, by which means they drew away the more part of the
people after them.

Ether 9:12
 12 And there began to be a war between the sons of Akish and
Akish, which lasted for the space of many years, yea, unto the
destruction of nearly all the people of the kingdom, yea, even
all, save it were thirty souls, and they who fled with the house
of Omer.

Ether 9:13
 13 Wherefore, Omer was restored again to the land of his
inheritance.

Ether 9:14
 14 And it came to pass that Omer began to be old; nevertheless,
in his old age he begat Emer; and he anointed Emer to be king to
reign in his stead.

Ether 9:15
 15 And after that he had anointed Emer to be king he saw peace
in the land for the space of two years, and he died, having seen
exceedingly many days, which were full of sorrow.  And it came to
pass that Emer did reign in his stead, and did fill the steps of
his father.

Ether 9:16
 16 And the Lord began again to take the curse from off the land,
and the house of Emer did prosper exceedingly under the reign of
Emer; and in the space of sixty and two years they had become
exceedingly strong, insomuch that they became exceedingly rich--

Ether 9:17
 17 Having all manner of fruit, and of grain, and of silks, and
of fine linen, and of gold, and of silver, and of precious
things;

Ether 9:18
 18 And also all manner of cattle, of oxen, and cows, and of
sheep, and of swine, and of goats, and also many other kinds of
animals which were useful for the food of man.

Ether 9:19
 19 And they also had horses, and asses, and there were elephants
and cureloms and cumoms; all of which were useful unto man, and
more especially the elephants and cureloms and cumoms.

Ether 9:20
 20 And thus the Lord did pour out his blessings upon this land,
which was choice above all other lands; and he commanded that
whoso should possess the land should possess it unto the Lord, or
they should be destroyed when they were ripened in iniquity; for
upon such, saith the Lord: I will pour out the fulness of my
wrath.

Ether 9:21
 21 And Emer did execute judgment in righteousness all his days,
and he begat many sons and daughters; and he begat Coriantum, and
he anointed Coriantum to reign in his stead.

Ether 9:22
 22 And after he had anointed Coriantum to reign in his stead he
lived four years, and he saw peace in the land; yea, and he even
saw the Son of Righteousness, and did rejoice and glory in his
day; and he died in peace.

Ether 9:23
 23 And it came to pass that Coriantum did walk in the steps of
his father, and did build many mighty cities, and did administer
that which was good unto his people in all his days.  And it came
to pass that he had no children even until he was exceedingly
old.

Ether 9:24
 24 And it came to pass that his wife died, being an hundred and
two years old.  And it came to pass that Coriantum took to wife,
in his old age, a young maid, and begat sons and daughters;
wherefore he lived until he was an hundred and forty and two
years old.

Ether 9:25
 25 And it came to pass that he begat Com, and Com reigned in his
stead; and he reigned forty and nine years, and he begat Heth;
and he also begat other sons and daughters.

Ether 9:26
 26 And the people had spread again over all the face of the
land, and there began again to be an exceedingly great wickedness
upon the face of the land, and Heth began to embrace the secret
plans again of old, to destroy his father.

Ether 9:27
 27 And it came to pass that he did dethrone his father, for he
slew him with his own sword; and he did reign in his stead.

Ether 9:28
 28 And there came prophets in the land again, crying repentance
unto them--that they must prepare the way of the Lord or there
should come a curse upon the face of the land; yea, even there
should be a great famine, in which they should be destroyed if
they did not repent.

Ether 9:29
 29 But the people believed not the words of the prophets, but
they cast them out; and some of them they cast into pits and left
them to perish.  And it came to pass that they did all these
things according to the commandment of the king, Heth.

Ether 9:30
 30 And it came to pass that there began to be a great dearth
upon the land, and the inhabitants began to be destroyed
exceedingly fast because of the dearth, for there was no rain
upon the face of the earth.

Ether 9:31
 31 And there came forth poisonous serpents also upon the face of
the land, and did poison many people.  And it came to pass that
their flocks began to flee before the poisonous serpents, towards
the land southward, which was called by the Nephites Zarahemla.

Ether 9:32
 32 And it came to pass that there were many of them which did
perish by the way; nevertheless, there were some which fled into
the land southward.

Ether 9:33
 33 And it came to pass that the Lord did cause the serpents that
they should pursue them no more, but that they should hedge up
the way that the people could not pass, that whoso should attempt
to pass might fall by the poisonous serpents.

Ether 9:34
 34 And it came to pass that the people did follow the course of
the beasts, and did devour the carcasses of them which fell by
the way, until they had devoured them all.  Now when the people
saw that they must perish they began to repent of their
iniquities and cry unto the Lord.

Ether 9:35
 35 And it came to pass that when they had humbled themselves
sufficiently before the Lord he did send rain upon the face of
the earth; and the people began to revive again, and there began
to be fruit in the north countries, and in all the countries
round about.  And the Lord did show forth his power unto them in
preserving them from famine.

Ether 10
Chapter 10

Ether 10:1
 1 And it came to pass that Shez, who was a descendant of
Heth--for Heth had perished by the famine, and all his household
save it were Shez--wherefore, Shez began to build up again a
broken people.

Ether 10:2
 2 And it came to pass that Shez did remember the destruction of
his fathers, and he did build up a righteous kingdom; for he
remembered what the Lord had done in bringing Jared and his
brother across the deep; and he did walk in the ways of the Lord;
and he begat sons and daughters.

Ether 10:3
 3 And his eldest son, whose name was Shez, did rebel against
him; nevertheless, Shez was smitten by the hand of a robber,
because of his exceeding riches, which brought peace again unto
his father.

Ether 10:4
 4 And it came to pass that his father did build up many cities
upon the face of the land, and the people began again to spread
over all the face of the land.  And Shez did live to an
exceedingly old age; and he begat Riplakish.  And he died, and
Riplakish reigned in his stead.

Ether 10:5
 5 And it came to pass that Riplakish did not do that which was
right in the sight of the Lord, for he did have many wives and
concubines, and did lay that upon men's shoulders which was
grievous to be borne; yea, he did tax them with heavy taxes; and
with the taxes he did build many spacious buildings.

Ether 10:6
 6 And he did erect him an exceedingly beautiful throne; and he
did build many prisons, and whoso would not be subject unto taxes
he did cast into prison; and whoso was not able to pay taxes he
did cast into prison; and he did cause that they should labor
continually for their support; and whoso refused to labor he did
cause to be put to death.

Ether 10:7
 7 Wherefore he did obtain all his fine work, yea, even his fine
gold he did cause to be refined in prison, and all manner of fine
workmanship he did cause to be wrought in prison.  And it came to
pass that he did afflict the people with his whoredoms and
abominations.

Ether 10:8
 8 And when he had reigned for the space of forty and two years
the people did rise up in rebellion against him; and there began
to be war again in the land, insomuch that Riplakish was killed,
and his descendants were driven out of the land.

Ether 10:9
 9 And it came to pass after the space of many years, Morianton,
(he being a descendant of Riplakish) gathered together an army of
outcasts, and went forth and gave battle unto the people; and he
gained power over many cities; and the war became exceedingly
sore, and did last for the space of many years; and he did gain
power over all the land, and did establish himself king over all
the land.

Ether 10:10
 10 And after that he had established himself king he did ease
the burden of the people, by which he did gain favor in the eyes
of the people, and they did anoint him to be their king.

Ether 10:11
 11 And he did do justice unto the people, but not unto himself
because of his many whoredoms; wherefore he was cut off from the
presence of the Lord.

Ether 10:12
 12 And it came to pass that Morianton built up many cities, and
the people became exceedingly rich under his reign, both in
buildings, and in gold and silver, and in raising grain, and in
flocks, and herds, and such things which had been restored unto
them.

Ether 10:13
 13 And Morianton did live to an exceedingly great age, and then
he begat Kim; and Kim did reign in the stead of his father; and
he did reign eight years, and his father died.  And it came to
pass that Kim did not reign in righteousness, wherefore he was
not favored of the Lord.

Ether 10:14
 14 And his brother did rise up in rebellion against him, by
which he did bring him into captivity; and he did remain in
captivity all his days; and he begat sons and daughters in
captivity, and in his old age he begat Levi; and he died.

Ether 10:15
 15 And it came to pass that Levi did serve in captivity after
the death of his father, for the space of forty and two years. 
And he did make war against the king of the land, by which he did
obtain unto himself the kingdom.

Ether 10:16
 16 And after he had obtained unto himself the kingdom he did
that which was right in the sight of the Lord; and the people did
prosper in the land; and he did live to a good old age, and begat
sons and daughters; and he also begat Corom, whom he anointed
king in his stead.

Ether 10:17
 17 And it came to pass that Corom did that which was good in the
sight of the Lord all his days; and he begat many sons and
daughters; and after he had seen many days he did pass away, even
like unto the rest of the earth; and Kish reigned in his stead.

Ether 10:18
 18 And it came to pass that Kish passed away also, and Lib
reigned in his stead.

Ether 10:19
 19 And it came to pass that Lib also did that which was good in
the sight of the Lord.  And in the days of Lib the poisonous
serpents were destroyed.  Wherefore they did go into the land
southward, to hunt food for the people of the land, for the land
was covered with animals of the forest.  And Lib also himself
became a great hunter.

Ether 10:20
 20 And they built a great city by the narrow neck of land, by
the place where the sea divides the land.

Ether 10:21
 21 And they did preserve the land southward for a wilderness, to
get game.  And the whole face of the land northward was covered
with inhabitants.

Ether 10:22
 22 And they were exceedingly industrious, and they did buy and
sell and traffic one with another, that they might get gain.

Ether 10:23
 23 And they did work in all manner of ore, and they did make
gold, and silver, and iron, and brass, and all manner of metals;
and they did dig it out of the earth; wherefore they did cast up
mighty heaps of earth to get ore, of gold, and of silver, and of
iron, and of copper.  And they did work all manner of fine work.

Ether 10:24
 24 And they did have silks, and fine-twined linen; and they did
work all manner of cloth, that they might clothe themselves from
their nakedness.

Ether 10:25
 25 And they did make all manner of tools to till the earth, both
to plow and to sow, to reap and to hoe, and also to thrash.

Ether 10:26
 26 And they did make all manner of tools with which they did
work their beasts.

Ether 10:27
 27 And they did make all manner of weapons of war.  And they did
work all manner of work of exceedingly curious workmanship.

Ether 10:28
 28 And never could be a people more blessed than were they, and
more prospered by the hand of the Lord.  And they were in a land
that was choice above all lands, for the Lord had spoken it.

Ether 10:29
 29 And it came to pass that Lib did live many years, and begat
sons and daughters; and he also begat Hearthom.

Ether 10:30
 30 And it came to pass that Hearthom reigned in the stead of his
father.  And when Hearthom had reigned twenty and four years,
behold, the kingdom was taken away from him.  And he served many
years in captivity, yea, even all the remainder of his days.

Ether 10:31
 31 And he begat Heth, and Heth lived in captivity all his days. 
And Heth begat Aaron, and Aaron dwelt in captivity all his days;
and he begat Amnigaddah, and Amnigaddah also dwelt in captivity
all his days; and he begat Coriantum, and Coriantum dwelt in
captivity all his days; and he begat Com.

Ether 10:32
 32 And it came to pass that Com drew away the half of the
kingdom.  And he reigned over the half of the kingdom forty and
two years; and he went to battle against the king, Amgid, and
they fought for the space of many years, during which time Com
gained power over Amgid, and obtained power over the remainder of
the kingdom.

Ether 10:33
 33 And in the days of Com there began to be robbers in the land;
and they adopted the old plans, and administered oaths after the
manner of the ancients, and sought again to destroy the kingdom.

Ether 10:34
 34 Now Com did fight against them much; nevertheless, he did not
prevail against them.

Ether 11
Chapter 11

Ether 11:1
 1 And there came also in the days of Com many prophets, and
prophesied of the destruction of that great people except they
should repent, and turn unto the Lord, and forsake their murders
and wickedness.

Ether 11:2
 2 And it came to pass that the prophets were rejected by the
people, and they fled unto Com for protection, for the people
sought to destroy them.

Ether 11:3
 3 And they prophesied unto Com many things; and he was blessed
in all the remainder of his days.

Ether 11:4
 4 And he lived to a good old age, and begat Shiblom; and Shiblom
reigned in his stead.  And the brother of Shiblom rebelled
against him, and there began to be an exceedingly great war in
all the land.

Ether 11:5
 5 And it came to pass that the brother of Shiblom caused that
all the prophets who prophesied of the destruction of the people
should be put to death;

Ether 11:6
 6 And there was great calamity in all the land, for they had
testified that a great curse should come upon the land, and also
upon the people, and that there should be a great destruction
among them, such an one as never had been upon the face of the
earth, and their bones should become as heaps of earth upon the
face of the land except they should repent of their wickedness.

Ether 11:7
 7 And they hearkened not unto the voice of the Lord, because of
their wicked combinations; wherefore, there began to be wars and
contentions in all the land, and also many famines and
pestilences, insomuch that there was a great destruction, such an
one as never had been known upon the face of the earth; and all
this came to pass in the days of Shiblom.

Ether 11:8
 8 And the people began to repent of their iniquity; and inasmuch
as they did the Lord did have mercy on them.

Ether 11:9
 9 And it came to pass that Shiblom was slain, and Seth was
brought into captivity, and did dwell in captivity all his days.

Ether 11:10
 10 And it came to pass that Ahah, his son, did obtain the
kingdom; and he did reign over the people all his days.  And he
did do all manner of iniquity in his days, by which he did cause
the shedding of much blood; and few were his days.

Ether 11:11
 11 And Ethem, being a descendant of Ahah, did obtain the
kingdom; and he also did do that which was wicked in his days.

Ether 11:12
 12 And it came to pass that in the days of Ethem there came many
prophets, and prophesied again unto the people; yea, they did
prophesy that the Lord would utterly destroy them from off the
face of the earth except they repented of their iniquities.

Ether 11:13
 13 And it came to pass that the people hardened their hearts,
and would not hearken unto their words; and the prophets mourned
and withdrew from among the people.

Ether 11:14
 14 And it came to pass that Ethem did execute judgment in
wickedness all his days; and he begat Moron.  And it came to pass
that Moron did reign in his stead; and Moron did that which was
wicked before the Lord.

Ether 11:15
 15 And it came to pass that there arose a rebellion among the
people, because of that secret combination which was built up to
get power and gain; and there arose a mighty man among them in
iniquity, and gave battle unto Moron, in which he did overthrow
the half of the kingdom; and he did maintain the half of the
kingdom for many years.

Ether 11:16
 16 And it came to pass that Moron did overthrow him, and did
obtain the kingdom again.

Ether 11:17
 17 And it came to pass that there arose another mighty man; and
he was a descendant of the brother of Jared.

Ether 11:18
 18 And it came to pass that he did overthrow Moron and obtain
the kingdom; wherefore, Moron dwelt in captivity all the
remainder of his days; and he begat Coriantor.

Ether 11:19
 19 And it came to pass that Coriantor dwelt in captivity all his
days.

Ether 11:20
 20 And in the days of Coriantor there also came many prophets,
and prophesied of great and marvelous things, and cried
repentance unto the people, and except they should repent the
Lord God would execute judgment against them to their utter
destruction;

Ether 11:21
 21 And that the Lord God would send or bring forth another
people to possess the land, by his power, after the manner by
which he brought their fathers.

Ether 11:22
 22 And they did reject all the words of the prophets, because of
their secret society and wicked abominations.

Ether 11:23
 23 And it came to pass that Coriantor begat Ether, and he died,
having dwelt in captivity all his days.

Ether 12
Chapter 12

Ether 12:1
 1 And it came to pass that the days of Ether were in the days of
Coriantumr; and Coriantumr was king over all the land.

Ether 12:2
 2 And Ether was a prophet of the Lord; wherefore Ether came
forth in the days of Coriantumr, and began to prophesy unto the
people, for he could not be restrained because of the Spirit of
the Lord which was in him.

Ether 12:3
 3 For he did cry from the morning, even until the going down of
the sun, exhorting the people to believe in God unto repentance
lest they should be destroyed, saying unto them that by faith all
things are fulfilled--

Ether 12:4
 4 Wherefore, whoso believeth in God might with surety hope for a
better world, yea, even a place at the right hand of God, which
hope cometh of faith, maketh an anchor to the souls of men, which
would make them sure and steadfast, always abounding in good
works, being led to glorify God.

Ether 12:5
 5 And it came to pass that Ether did prophesy great and
marvelous things unto the people, which they did not believe,
because they saw them not.

Ether 12:6
 6 And now, I, Moroni, would speak somewhat concerning these
things; I would show unto the world that faith is things which
are hoped for and not seen; wherefore, dispute not because ye see
not, for ye receive no witness until after the trial of your
faith.

Ether 12:7
 7 For it was by faith that Christ showed himself unto our
fathers, after he had risen from the dead; and he showed not
himself unto them until after they had faith in him; wherefore,
it must needs be that some had faith in him, for he showed
himself not unto the world.

Ether 12:8
 8 But because of the faith of men he has shown himself unto the
world, and glorified the name of the Father, and prepared a way
that thereby others might be partakers of the heavenly gift, that
they might hope for those things which they have not seen.

Ether 12:9
 9 Wherefore, ye may also have hope, and be partakers of the
gift, if ye will but have faith.

Ether 12:10
 10 Behold it was by faith that they of old were called after the
holy order of God.

Ether 12:11
 11 Wherefore, by faith was the law of Moses given.  But in the
gift of his Son hath God prepared a more excellent way; and it is
by faith that it hath been fulfilled.

Ether 12:12
 12 For if there be no faith among the children of men God can do
no miracle among them; wherefore, he showed not himself until
after their faith.

Ether 12:13
 13 Behold, it was the faith of Alma and Amulek that caused the
prison to tumble to the earth.

Ether 12:14
 14 Behold, it was the faith of Nephi and Lehi that wrought the
change upon the Lamanites, that they were baptized with fire and
with the Holy Ghost.

Ether 12:15
 15 Behold, it was the faith of Ammon and his brethren which
wrought so great a miracle among the Lamanites.

Ether 12:16
 16 Yea, and even all they who wrought miracles wrought them by
faith, even those who were before Christ and also those who were
after.

Ether 12:17
 17 And it was by faith that the three disciples obtained a
promise that they should not taste of death; and they obtained
not the promise until after their faith.

Ether 12:18
 18 And neither at any time hath any wrought miracles until after
their faith; wherefore they first believed in the Son of God.

Ether 12:19
 19 And there were many whose faith was so exceedingly strong,
even before Christ came, who could not be kept from within the
veil, but truly saw with their eyes the things which they had
beheld with an eye of faith, and they were glad.

Ether 12:20
 20 And behold, we have seen in this record that one of these was
the brother of Jared; for so great was his faith in God, that
when God put forth his finger he could not hide it from the sight
of the brother of Jared, because of his word which he had spoken
unto him, which word he had obtained by faith.

Ether 12:21
 21 And after the brother of Jared had beheld the finger of the
Lord, because of the promise which the brother of Jared had
obtained by faith, the Lord could not withhold anything from his
sight; wherefore he showed him all things, for he could no longer
be kept without the veil.

Ether 12:22
 22 And it is by faith that my fathers have obtained the promise
that these things should come unto their brethren through the
Gentiles; therefore the Lord hath commanded me, yea, even Jesus
Christ.

Ether 12:23
 23 And I said unto him: Lord, the Gentiles will mock at these
things, because of our weakness in writing; for Lord thou hast
made us mighty in word by faith, but thou hast not made us mighty
in writing; for thou hast made all this people that they could
speak much, because of the Holy Ghost which thou hast given them;

Ether 12:24
 24 And thou hast made us that we could write but little, because
of the awkwardness of our hands.  Behold, thou hast not made us
mighty in writing like unto the brother of Jared, for thou madest
him that the things which he wrote were mighty even as thou art,
unto the overpowering of man to read them.

Ether 12:25
 25 Thou hast also made our words powerful and great, even that
we cannot write them; wherefore, when we write we behold our
weakness, and stumble because of the placing of our words; and I
fear lest the Gentiles shall mock at our words.

Ether 12:26
 26 And when I had said this, the Lord spake unto me, saying:
Fools mock, but they shall mourn; and my grace is sufficient for
the meek, that they shall take no advantage of your weakness;

Ether 12:27
 27 And if men come unto me I will show unto them their weakness.

I give unto men weakness that they may be humble; and my grace is
sufficient for all men that humble themselves before me; for if
they humble themselves before me, and have faith in me, then will
I make weak things become strong unto them.

Ether 12:28
 28 Behold, I will show unto the Gentiles their weakness and I
will show unto them that faith, hope and charity bringeth unto
me--the fountain of all righteousness.

Ether 12:29
 29 And I, Moroni, having heard these words, was comforted, and
said: O Lord, thy righteous will be done, for I know that thou
workest unto the children of men according to their faith;

Ether 12:30
 30 For the brother of Jared said unto the mountain Zerin,
Remove--and it was removed.  And if he had not had faith it would
not have moved; wherefore thou workest after men have faith.

Ether 12:31
 31 For thus didst thou manifest thyself unto thy disciples; for
after they had faith, and did speak in thy name, thou didst show
thyself unto them in great power.

Ether 12:32
 32 And I also remember that thou hast said that thou hast
prepared a house for man, yea, even among the mansions of thy
Father, in which man might have a more excellent hope; wherefore
man must hope, or he cannot receive an inheritance in the place
which thou hast prepared.

Ether 12:33
 33 And again, I remember that thou hast said that thou hast
loved the world, even unto the laying down of thy life for the
world, that thou mightest take it again to prepare a place for
the children of men.

Ether 12:34
 34 And now I know that this love which thou hast had for the
children of men is charity; wherefore, except men shall have
charity they cannot inherit that place which thou hast prepared
in the mansions of thy Father.

Ether 12:35
 35 Wherefore, I know by this thing which thou hast said, that if
the Gentiles have not charity, because of our weakness, that thou
wilt prove them, and take away their talent, yea, even that which
they have received, and give unto them who shall have more
abundantly.

Ether 12:36
 36 And it came to pass that I prayed unto the Lord that he would
give unto the Gentiles grace, that they might have charity.

Ether 12:37
 37 And it came to pass that the Lord said unto me: If they have
not charity it mattereth not unto thee, thou hast been faithful;
wherefore, thy garments shall be made clean.  And because thou
hast seen thy weakness thou shalt be made strong, even unto the
sitting down in the place which I have prepared in the mansions
of my Father.

Ether 12:38
 38 And now I, Moroni, bid farewell unto the Gentiles, yea, and
also unto my brethren whom I love, until we shall meet before the
judgment-seat of Christ, where all men shall know that my
garments are not spotted with your blood.

Ether 12:39
 39 And then shall ye know that I have seen Jesus, and that he
hath talked with me face to face, and that he told me in plain
humility, even as a man telleth another in mine own language,
concerning these things;

Ether 12:40
 40 And only a few have I written, because of my weakness in
writing.

Ether 12:41
 41 And now, I would commend you to seek this Jesus of whom the
prophets and apostles have written, that the grace of God the
Father, and also the Lord Jesus Christ, and the Holy Ghost, which
beareth record of them, may be and abide in you forever.  Amen.

Ether 13
Chapter 13

Ether 13:1
 1 And now I, Moroni, proceed to finish my record concerning the
destruction of the people of whom I have been writing.

Ether 13:2
 2 For behold, they rejected all the words of Ether; for he truly
told them of all things, from the beginning of man; and that
after the waters had receded from off the face of this land it
became a choice land above all other lands, a chosen land of the
Lord; wherefore the Lord would have that all men should serve him
who dwell upon the face thereof;

Ether 13:3
 3 And that it was the place of the New Jerusalem, which should
come down out of heaven, and the holy sanctuary of the Lord.

Ether 13:4
 4 Behold, Ether saw the days of Christ, and he spake concerning
a New Jerusalem upon this land.

Ether 13:5
 5 And he spake also concerning the house of Israel, and the
Jerusalem from whence Lehi should come--after it should be
destroyed it should be built up again, a holy city unto the Lord;
wherefore, it could not be a new Jerusalem for it had been in a
time of old; but it should be built up again, and become a holy
city of the Lord; and it should be built unto the house of
Israel.

Ether 13:6
 6 And that a New Jerusalem should be built upon this land, unto
the remnant of the seed of Joseph, for which things there has
been a type.

Ether 13:7
 7 For as Joseph brought his father down into the land of Egypt,
even so he died there; wherefore, the Lord brought a remnant of
the seed of Joseph out of the land of Jerusalem, that he might be
merciful unto the seed of Joseph that they should perish not,
even as he was merciful unto the father of Joseph that he should
perish not.

Ether 13:8
 8 Wherefore, the remnant of the house of Joseph shall be built
upon this land; and it shall be a land of their inheritance; and
they shall build up a holy city unto the Lord, like unto the
Jerusalem of old; and they shall no more be confounded, until the
end come when the earth shall pass away.

Ether 13:9
 9 And there shall be a new heaven and a new earth; and they
shall be like unto the old save the old have passed away, and all
things have become new.

Ether 13:10
 10 And then cometh the New Jerusalem; and blessed are they who
dwell therein, for it is they whose garments are white through
the blood of the Lamb; and they are they who are numbered among
the remnant of the seed of Joseph, who were of the house of
Israel.

Ether 13:11
 11 And then also cometh the Jerusalem of old; and the
inhabitants thereof, blessed are they, for they have been washed
in the blood of the Lamb; and they are they who were scattered
and gathered in from the four quarters of the earth, and from the
north countries, and are partakers of the fulfilling of the
covenant which God made with their father, Abraham.

Ether 13:12
 12 And when these things come, bringeth to pass the scripture
which saith, there are they who were first, who shall be last;
and there are they who were last, who shall be first.

Ether 13:13
 13 And I was about to write more, but I am forbidden; but great
and marvelous were the prophecies of Ether; but they esteemed him
as naught, and cast him out; and he hid himself in the cavity of
a rock by day, and by night he went forth viewing the things
which should come upon the people.

Ether 13:14
 14 And as he dwelt in the cavity of a rock he made the remainder
of his record, viewing the destructions which came upon the
people, by night.

Ether 13:15
 15 And it came to pass that in that same year in which he was
cast out from among the people there began to be a great war
among the people, for there were many who rose up, who were
mighty men, and sought to destroy Coriantumr by their secret
plans of wickedness, of which hath been spoken.

Ether 13:16
 16 And now Coriantumr, having studied, himself, in all the arts
of war and all the cunning of the world, wherefore he gave battle
unto them who sought to destroy him.

Ether 13:17
 17 But he repented not, neither his fair sons nor daughters;
neither the fair sons and daughters of Cohor; neither the fair
sons and daughters of Corihor; and in fine, there were none of
the fair sons and daughters upon the face of the whole earth who
repented of their sins.

Ether 13:18
 18 Wherefore, it came to pass that in the first year that Ether
dwelt in the cavity of a rock, there were many people who were
slain by the sword of those secret combinations, fighting against
Coriantumr that they might obtain the kingdom.

Ether 13:19
 19 And it came to pass that the sons of Coriantumr fought much
and bled much.

Ether 13:20
 20 And in the second year the word of the Lord came to Ether,
that he should go and prophesy unto Coriantumr that, if he would
repent, and all his household, the Lord would give unto him his
kingdom and spare the people--

Ether 13:21
 21 Otherwise they should be destroyed, and all his household
save it were himself.  And he should only live to see the
fulfilling of the prophecies which had been spoken concerning
another people receiving the land for their inheritance; and
Coriantumr should receive a burial by them; and every soul should
be destroyed save it were Coriantumr.

Ether 13:22
 22 And it came to pass that Coriantumr repented not, neither his
household, neither the people; and the wars ceased not; and they
sought to kill Ether, but he fled from before them and hid again
in the cavity of the rock.

Ether 13:23
 23 And it came to pass that there arose up Shared, and he also
gave battle unto Coriantumr; and he did beat him, insomuch that
in the third year he did bring him into captivity.

Ether 13:24
 24 And the sons of Coriantumr, in the fourth year, did beat
Shared, and did obtain the kingdom again unto their father.

Ether 13:25
 25 Now there began to be a war upon all the face of the land,
every man with his band fighting for that which he desired.

Ether 13:26
 26 And there were robbers, and in fine, all manner of wickedness
upon all the face of the land.

Ether 13:27
 27 And it came to pass that Coriantumr was exceedingly angry
with Shared, and he went against him with his armies to battle;
and they did meet in great anger, and they did meet in the valley
of Gilgal; and the battle became exceedingly sore.

Ether 13:28
 28 And it came to pass that Shared fought against him for the
space of three days.  And it came to pass that Coriantumr beat
him, and did pursue him until he came to the plains of Heshlon.

Ether 13:29
 29 And it came to pass that Shared gave him battle again upon
the plains; and behold, he did beat Coriantumr, and drove him
back again to the valley of Gilgal.

Ether 13:30
 30 And Coriantumr gave Shared battle again in the valley of
Gilgal, in which he beat Shared and slew him.

Ether 13:31
 31 And Shared wounded Coriantumr in his thigh, that he did not
go to battle again for the space of two years, in which time all
the people upon the face of the land were shedding blood, and
there was none to restrain them.

Ether 14
Chapter 14

Ether 14:1
 1 And now there began to be a great curse upon all the land
because of the iniquity of the people, in which, if a man should
lay his tool or his sword upon his shelf, or upon the place
whither he would keep it, behold, upon the morrow, he could not
find it, so great was the curse upon the land.

Ether 14:2
 2 Wherefore every man did cleave unto that which was his own,
with his hands, and would not borrow neither would he lend; and
every man kept the hilt of his sword in his right hand, in the
defence of his property and his own life and of his wives and
children.

Ether 14:3
 3 And now, after the space of two years, and after the death of
Shared, behold, there arose the brother of Shared and he gave
battle unto Coriantumr, in which Coriantumr did beat him and did
pursue him to the wilderness of Akish.

Ether 14:4
 4 And it came to pass that the brother of Shared did give battle
unto him in the wilderness of Akish; and the battle became
exceedingly sore, and many thousands fell by the sword.

Ether 14:5
 5 And it came to pass that Coriantumr did lay siege to the
wilderness; and the brother of Shared did march forth out of the
wilderness by night, and slew a part of the army of Coriantumr,
as they were drunken.

Ether 14:6
 6 And he came forth to the land of Moron, and placed himself
upon the throne of Coriantumr.

Ether 14:7
 7 And it came to pass that Coriantumr dwelt with his army in the
wilderness for the space of two years, in which he did receive
great strength to his army.

Ether 14:8
 8 Now the brother of Shared, whose name was Gilead, also
received great strength to his army, because of secret
combinations.

Ether 14:9
 9 And it came to pass that his high priest murdered him as he
sat upon his throne.

Ether 14:10
 10 And it came to pass that one of the secret combinations
murdered him in a secret pass, and obtained unto himself the
kingdom; and his name was Lib; and Lib was a man of great
stature, more than any other man among all the people.

Ether 14:11
 11 And it came to pass that in the first year of Lib, Coriantumr
came up unto the land of Moron, and gave battle unto Lib.

Ether 14:12
 12 And it came to pass that he fought with Lib, in which Lib did
smite upon his arm that he was wounded; nevertheless, the army of
Coriantumr did press forward upon Lib, that he fled to the
borders upon the seashore.

Ether 14:13
 13 And it came to pass that Coriantumr pursued him; and Lib gave
battle unto him upon the seashore.

Ether 14:14
 14 And it came to pass that Lib did smite the army of
Coriantumr, that they fled again to the wilderness of Akish.

Ether 14:15
 15 And it came to pass that Lib did pursue him until he came to
the plains of Agosh.  And Coriantumr had taken all the people
with him as he fled before Lib in that quarter of the land
whither he fled.

Ether 14:16
 16 And when he had come to the plains of Agosh he gave battle
unto Lib, and he smote upon him until he died; nevertheless, the
brother of Lib did come against Coriantumr in the stead thereof,
and the battle became exceedingly sore, in the which Coriantumr
fled again before the army of the brother of Lib.

Ether 14:17
 17 Now the name of the brother of Lib was called Shiz.  And it
came to pass that Shiz pursued after Coriantumr, and he did
overthrow many cities, and he did slay both women and children,
and he did burn the cities.

Ether 14:18
 18 And there went a fear of Shiz throughout all the land; yea, a
cry went forth throughout the land--Who can stand before the army
of Shiz?  Behold, he sweepeth the earth before him!

Ether 14:19
 19 And it came to pass that the people began to flock together
in armies, throughout all the face of the land.

Ether 14:20
 20 And they were divided; and a part of them fled to the army of
Shiz, and a part of them fled to the army of Coriantumr.

Ether 14:21
 21 And so great and lasting had been the war, and so long had
been the scene of bloodshed and carnage, that the whole face of
the land was covered with the bodies of the dead.

Ether 14:22
 22 And so swift and speedy was the war that there was none left
to bury the dead, but they did march forth from the shedding of
blood to the shedding of blood, leaving the bodies of both men,
women, and children strewed upon the face of the land, to become
a prey to the worms of the flesh.

Ether 14:23
 23 And the scent thereof went forth upon the face of the land,
even upon all the face of the land; wherefore the people became
troubled by day and by night, because of the scent thereof.

Ether 14:24
 24 Nevertheless, Shiz did not cease to pursue Coriantumr; for he
had sworn to avenge himself upon Coriantumr of the blood of his
brother, who had been slain, and the word of the Lord which came
to Ether that Coriantumr should not fall by the sword.

Ether 14:25
 25 And thus we see that the Lord did visit them in the fulness
of his wrath, and their wickedness and abominations had prepared
a way for their everlasting destruction.

Ether 14:26
 26 And it came to pass that Shiz did pursue Coriantumr eastward,
even to the borders by the seashore, and there he gave battle
unto Shiz for the space of three days.

Ether 14:27
 27 And so terrible was the destruction among the armies of Shiz
that the people began to be frightened, and began to flee before
the armies of Coriantumr; and they fled to the land of Corihor,
and swept off the inhabitants before them, all them that would
not join them.

Ether 14:28
 28 And they pitched their tents in the valley of Corihor; and
Coriantumr pitched his tents in the valley of Shurr.  Now the
valley of Shurr was near the hill Comnor; wherefore, Coriantumr
did gather his armies together upon the hill Comnor, and did
sound a trumpet unto the armies of Shiz to invite them forth to
battle.

Ether 14:29
 29 And it came to pass that they came forth, but were driven
again; and they came the second time, and they were driven again
the second time.  And it came to pass that they came again the
third time, and the battle became exceedingly sore.

Ether 14:30
 30 And it came to pass that Shiz smote upon Coriantumr that he
gave him many deep wounds; and Coriantumr, having lost his blood,
fainted, and was carried away as though he were dead.

Ether 14:31
 31 Now the loss of men, women and children on both sides was so
great that Shiz commanded his people that they should not pursue
the armies of Coriantumr; wherefore, they returned to their camp.

Ether 15
Chapter 15

Ether 15:1
 1 And it came to pass when Coriantumr had recovered of his
wounds, he began to remember the words which Ether had spoken
unto him.

Ether 15:2
 2 He saw that there had been slain by the sword already nearly
two millions of his people, and he began to sorrow in his heart;
yea, there had been slain two millions of mighty men, and also
their wives and their children.

Ether 15:3
 3 He began to repent of the evil which he had done; he began to
remember the words which had been spoken by the mouth of all the
prophets, and he saw them that they were fulfilled thus far,
every whit; and his soul mourned and refused to be comforted.

Ether 15:4
 4 And it came to pass that he wrote an epistle unto Shiz,
desiring him that he would spare the people, and he would give up
the kingdom for the sake of the lives of the people.

Ether 15:5
 5 And it came to pass that when Shiz had received his epistle he
wrote an epistle unto Coriantumr, that if he would give himself
up, that he might slay him with his own sword, that he would
spare the lives of the people.

Ether 15:6
 6 And it came to pass that the people repented not of their
iniquity; and the people of Coriantumr were stirred up to anger
against the people of Shiz; and the people of Shiz were stirred
up to anger against the people of Coriantumr; wherefore, the
people of Shiz did give battle unto the people of Coriantumr.

Ether 15:7
 7 And when Coriantumr saw that he was about to fall he fled
again before the people of Shiz.

Ether 15:8
 8 And it came to pass that he came to the waters of Ripliancum,
which, by interpretation, is large, or to exceed all; wherefore,
when they came to these waters they pitched their tents; and Shiz
also pitched his tents near unto them; and therefore on the
morrow they did come to battle.

Ether 15:9
 9 And it came to pass that they fought an exceedingly sore
battle, in which Coriantumr was wounded again, and he fainted
with the loss of blood.

Ether 15:10
 10 And it came to pass that the armies of Coriantumr did press
upon the armies of Shiz that they beat them, that they caused
them to flee before them; and they did flee southward, and did
pitch their tents in a place which was called Ogath.

Ether 15:11
 11 And it came to pass that the army of Coriantumr did pitch
their tents by the hill Ramah; and it was that same hill where my
father Mormon did hide up the records unto the Lord, which were
sacred.

Ether 15:12
 12 And it came to pass that they did gather together all the
people upon all the face of the land, who had not been slain,
save it was Ether.

Ether 15:13
 13 And it came to pass that Ether did behold all the doings of
the people; and he beheld that the people who were for Coriantumr
were gathered together to the army of Coriantumr; and the people
who were for Shiz were gathered together to the army of Shiz.

Ether 15:14
 14 Wherefore, they were for the space of four years gathering
together the people, that they might get all who were upon the
face of the land, and that they might receive all the strength
which it was possible that they could receive.

Ether 15:15
 15 And it came to pass that when they were all gathered
together, every one to the army which he would, with their wives
and their children--both men women and children being armed with
weapons of war, having shields, and breastplates, and
head-plates, and being clothed after the manner of war--they did
march forth one against another to battle; and they fought all
that day, and conquered not.

Ether 15:16
 16 And it came to pass that when it was night they were weary,
and retired to their camps; and after they had retired to their
camps they took up a howling and a lamentation for the loss of
the slain of their people; and so great were their cries, their
howlings and lamentations, that they did rend the air
exceedingly.

Ether 15:17
 17 And it came to pass that on the morrow they did go again to
battle, and great and terrible was that day; nevertheless, they
conquered not, and when the night came again they did rend the
air with their cries, and their howlings, and their mournings,
for the loss of the slain of their people.

Ether 15:18
 18 And it came to pass that Coriantumr wrote again an epistle
unto Shiz, desiring that he would not come again to battle, but
that he would take the kingdom, and spare the lives of the
people.

Ether 15:19
 19 And behold, the Spirit of the Lord had ceased striving with
them, and Satan had full power over the hearts of the people; for
they were given up unto the hardness of their hearts, and the
blindness of their minds that they might be destroyed; wherefore
they went again to battle.

Ether 15:20
 20 And it came to pass that they fought all that day, and when
the night came they slept upon their swords.

Ether 15:21
 21 And on the morrow they fought even until the night came.

Ether 15:22
 22 And when the night came they were drunken with anger, even as
a man who is drunken with wine; and they slept again upon their
swords.

Ether 15:23
 23 And on the morrow they fought again; and when the night came
they had all fallen by the sword save it were fifty and two of
the people of Coriantumr, and sixty and nine of the people of
Shiz.

Ether 15:24
 24 And it came to pass that they slept upon their swords that
night, and on the morrow they fought again, and they contended in
their might with their swords and with their shields, all that
day.

Ether 15:25
 25 And when the night came there were thirty and two of the
people of Shiz, and twenty and seven of the people of Coriantumr.

Ether 15:26
 26 And it came to pass that they ate and slept, and prepared for
death on the morrow.  And they were large and mighty men as to
the strength of men.

Ether 15:27
 27 And it came to pass that they fought for the space of three
hours, and they fainted with the loss of blood.

Ether 15:28
 28 And it came to pass that when the men of Coriantumr had
received sufficient strength that they could walk, they were
about to flee for their lives; but behold, Shiz arose, and also
his men, and he swore in his wrath that he would slay Coriantumr
or he would perish by the sword.

Ether 15:29
 29 Wherefore, he did pursue them, and on the morrow he did
overtake them; and they fought again with the sword.  And it came
to pass that when they had all fallen by the sword, save it were
Coriantumr and Shiz, behold Shiz had fainted with the loss of
blood.

Ether 15:30
 30 And it came to pass that when Coriantumr had leaned upon his
sword, that he rested a little, he smote off the head of Shiz.

Ether 15:31
 31 And it came to pass that after he had smitten off the head of
Shiz, that Shiz raised upon his hands and fell; and after that he
had struggled for breath, he died.

Ether 15:32
 32 And it came to pass that Coriantumr fell to the earth, and
became as if he had no life.

Ether 15:33
 33 And the Lord spake unto Ether, and said unto him: Go forth. 
And he went forth, and beheld that the words of the Lord had all
been fulfilled; and he finished his record; (and the hundredth
part I have not written) and he hid them in a manner that the
people of Limhi did find them.

Ether 15:34
 34 Now the last words which are written by Ether are these:
Whether the Lord will that I be translated, or that I suffer the
will of the Lord in the flesh, it mattereth not, if it so be that
I am saved in the kingdom of God.  Amen.
.
